I'm 75 I love being single here's
why as someone who has spent over seven
decades on this Earth I've come to
appreciate life in all its Seasons I'm
75 years old and for the past decade
I've been living single and loving it
now I understand that might surprise
some folks especially those who see
companionship as essential in their
golden years but let me tell you being s
sing Le at this stage of life can be one
of the most liberating fulfilling
experiences you can
imagine here are the reasons why being
single has brought me joy freedom and
peace of mind and why it might just be
the best chapter of your life too if you
enjoyed this video give it a thumbs up
don't forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update one freedom to do things my way
there's something profoundly satisfying
about waking up in the morning and
knowing that every decision you make is
entirely your own when you're single at
75 you experience a kind of Freedom
that's difficult to put into words it's
not just about picking what's for dinner
or deciding how to spend the day it's
the deeper realization that your life is
entirely your own to shape after years
of living within the rhythms and
compromises of a marriage this autonomy
feels like rediscovering a lost piece of
yourself for me this Freedom means my
days are filled with choices that
reflect my truest self I can start my
morning slowly enjoying the sound of
bird song and the warmth of my favorite
mug of tea or I can dive into a project
I'm passionate about without distraction
it's the joy of setting my own pace
unencumbered by anyone else's
expectations I've learned to Value these
moments of solitude not as loneliness
but as an opportunity to connect deeply
with
myself Freedom also means making bold
choices without hesitation maybe it's
deciding to repaint the living room in a
vibrant color or spontaneously booking a
trip to a place I've always wanted to
visit these choices may seem small but
together they create a life that's
uniquely mine a life defined by
authenticity and
joy I've come to see this Independence
not as a burden but as a gift one that
allows me to craft a life that feels
deeply
satisfying two rediscovering hobbies and
passions there's a kind of magic in
rediscovering the parts of yourself that
you may have put aside long ago in the
hustle of raising children managing a
household and navigating the demands of
a partnership it's easy to lose touch
with the things that once brought you
Joy but being single at 75 has given me
the chance to reconnect with those
forgotten pieces of my identity and the
experience has been nothing short of
transformative when I was younger I
loved painting but life got busy and my
brushes gathered dust now my easel sits
proudly by the window and I spent hours
lost in the flow of color and
creativity it's not just a hobby it's a
form of self-expression a way to capture
the beauty of the world as I see it
every stroke feels like reclaiming a
piece of myself a reminder that there's
still so much to discover within
me gardening has also become a passion
not just for the blooms it brings but
for the sense of connection it Fosters
tending to my little garden reminds me
of life cycles how things grow fade and
renew it's a grounding experience that
teaches patience and care and it fills
me with a quiet kind of
Happiness the beauty of this stage in
life is that there's no pressure to be
perfect I've embraced the idea that
hobbies are not about Mastery but about
Joy whether I'm experimenting in the
kitchen learning to play a new tune on
the piano or simply walking through a
local park with my camera in hand these
activities bring me closer to myself
rediscovering my passions has not only
filled my days with meaning but also
reminded me that this chapter of life is
not an end it's a
beginning Three Financial Independence
there's a quiet pride in knowing that
every financial decision I make is my
own at 75 being single has allowed me to
fully embrace the freedom that comes
with financial Independence a freedom
that isn't just about spending it's
about control and intention over the
years I've learned the value of my
hard-earned savings and the importance
of spending it in ways that truly bring
me
happiness when I was married financial
decisions often involve compromise what
seemed like a simple choice
whether to save or spend invest or
Splurge was always tied to someone
else's priorities and preferences now
those choices reflect only what matters
to me whether it's a spontaneous getaway
to the tropics investing in a hobby that
Sparks Joy or simply indulging in a
beautiful new outfit I've come to
understand that my money is a tool to
create the life I
want Financial Independence isn't just
about the big purchases it's about the
little luxuries too especially meal at
my favorite restaurant a gift for a
grandchild or a subscription to a course
I've always wanted to take all these
things feel more meaningful because
they're deliberate being single means I
don't have to justify my decisions to
anyone and there's immense satisfaction
in knowing that I've built a life where
I can do these things guilt-free
but beyond spending Financial
Independence has given me peace of mind
I've taken the time to plan carefully
for the years ahead ensuring that I'll
be comfortable and secure no matter what
comes my way that sense of stability
allows me to focus on what truly matters
enjoying the time I have investing in
experiences and leaving behind a legacy
that reflects my
values four peace and
quiet there's a unique beauty in waking
up to a quiet house where the only sound
are the gentle hum of the world outside
in the rhythm of your own breathing for
me this peace isn't just an absence of
noise it's a presence a kind of Serenity
that fills the space once occupied by
constant demands and
expectations being single at 75 has
allowed me to fully immerse myself in
this Stillness and it has become one of
the greatest joys of my
life in the past my days were a
whirlwind of activity from from raising
children to managing a home and
navigating the complexities of a
relationship there was little room for
quiet now my mornings start slowly with
a cup of tea in hand and No Agenda to
rush me I take my time to read reflect
or simply watch the sunrise and these
moments feel like small Treasures
precious slices of life where I can just
be this piece has given me the space to
think deeply
and reconnect with myself without the
constant chatter of another person's
needs I've come to understand my own
desires fears and dreams more clearly
it's as though I've rediscovered my own
voice one that was often drowned out by
the noise of daily life in this
Stillness I found Clarity and a deeper
appreciation for the present
moment peace doesn't mean isolation it
means choosing how I engage with the
world I've learned to protect my time
and energy savoring the relationships
and activities that truly nourish me
whether it's a quiet afternoon tending
to my garden or a solitary walk along a
Wooded Trail these moments of solitude
have become a sanctuary where I can
recharge and find
Joy ultimately the peace I found in
being single isn't just external it's
internal it's the calm that comes from
knowing I'm living authentically free
from the weight of expectations and
fully present in the life I've created
for myself in this silence I've
discovered a contentment that feels both
profound and
enduring five time to focus on
Health in the quiet and spaciousness of
single life I've discovered a gift I had
often overlooked the time and ability to
to truly care for myself at 75 Health
becomes more than just a consideration
it's the foundation of everything being
single has allowed me to prioritize my
well-being in ways that were challenging
in the busyness of partnership in family
life for years taking care of myself
often meant fitting my needs into the
gaps between everyone else's meals were
planned around others tastes EX exercise
routines interrupted by daily demands
and medical appointments delayed because
someone else's schedule seemed more
pressing now my health takes center
stage and it's been
transformative mornings begin with
intentional movement whether it's a walk
around the neighborhood or a gentle yoga
session these moments ground me
reminding me of the strength and
vitality still within me I've also
started cooking for myself in a way that
feels nurturing experimenting with new
recipes that nourish both my body and
spirit there's a joy in preparing a meal
that's just for you with no compromises
or shortcuts only what feels good and
healthy beyond the physical I've also
devoted time to mental and emotional
health I've learned the value of
mindfulness of sitting quietly with my
thoughts and allowing myself to Simply
Be This focus on inner peace has brought
a Clarity and calmness that radiates
into every part of my life being single
gives me the time and space to listen to
my body and heart to honor their needs
without
distractions there's a deep empowerment
in taking charge of my health uh it's a
reminder that even in my 70s I have
agency and strength I've embraced this
stage of life not as a time of slowing
down but as an opportunity to build a
version of myself that feels whole
strong and ready to embrace the years
ahead six building deep connections with
others one of the misconceptions about
being single in your later years is that
it means being alone for me nothing
could be further from the truth in fact
being single has allowed me to cultivate
relationships that are deeper richer and
more meaningful than ever before without
the demands of a partnership I've been
able to invest in the connections that
truly matter and it's been one of the
most rewarding aspects of this chapter
in my life friendships have taken on a
new importance I've reconnected with old
friends from my youth people who knew me
when life was simpler and who still see
the essence of who I am these
friendships are Treasures filled with
laughter shared memories and the kind of
understanding that only comes with
time I've also made new friends Finding
Kindred Spirits in unexpected places at
the community center in my book club and
even during my morning
walks these relationships feel vibrant
and Alive built on mutual respect and
shared
interests my family connections have
deepened as well as a parent and
grandparent I found joy in being a
steady calming presence for my children
and their families without the
distractions of a romantic partnership I
can give give my full attention to my
grandchildren watching them grow and
exploring the world through their
Curious eyes these moments are a gift
and I treasure the time I spend with
them free from the rush and stress that
once colored my
days perhaps the most surprising
connection has been with my community
volunteering has become a passion giving
me a sense of purpose and belonging
whether it's helping out at a local
shelter or mentoring younger Generations
these experiences remind me that
relationships aren't confined to family
or romance they can be found in the
shared goal of making the world a little
brighter being single has taught me that
true connection isn't about quantity but
quality it's not about having someone by
your side every day but about the
moments of genuine understanding and
care you share with others these
relationships built on love respect
respect and share Joy are what make life
meaningful they remind me that while I
may live alone I am never truly
alone seven no pressure to make someone
else
happy for much of my life I carried the
silent weight of trying to make others
happy as a spouse and parent it seemed
woven into my identity a constant
Balancing Act of meeting needs
anticipating moods and smoothing over
life's inevitable
bumps while there were joys in those
roles there was also an undercurrent of
exhaustion now at 75 I've come to
understand the quiet relief of releasing
that responsibility and embracing the
freedom to prioritize my own
happiness being single has taught me a
powerful lesson you cannot pour from an
empty cup for years I thought happiness
was something to be earned through
service to others but I've learned that
true Joy comes from within without the
pressure of trying to please someone
else I've found the space to listen to
my own desires and ReDiscover what makes
me happy it's liberating to wake up each
day and ask what do I want today without
the shadow of guilt or
obligation this shift isn't selfish it's
self-care I've realized that my
happiness is my own responsibility and
the same is true for others no longer do
I feel the need to bend and twist myself
into shapes to fit someone else's
expectations instead I've embraced the
authenticity that comes with living life
on my own terms free of the Endless
guessing game of how to keep another
person
content I've learned to celebrate the
small Joys a favorite song playing in
the background the warmth of the sun on
my skin the satisfaction of
accomplishing something just for myself
these moments of quiet happiness remind
me that life doesn't need to be filled
with grand gestures or constant
compromises
it simply needs to feel right for
me eight the joy of
spontaneity one of the most delightful
surprises of being single at 75 is the
rediscovery of spontaneity for so many
years my days were carefully planned
filled with schedules and obligations
always Tethered to the needs of others
now the possibilities feel endless and
the joy of doing something on a whim has
become one of my favorite parts of this
chapter in
life last summer I woke up one morning
and decided to drive to the mountains no
planning no consultations just a packed
lunch my favorite playlist in the open
road it was exhilarating not just
because of the scenery but because it
felt like a celebration of my freedom
the spontaneity brought me back to a
version of myself I hadn't seen in
decades the Curious adventurous Spirit
who lived for the thrill of trying
something
new spontaneity doesn't have to mean
Grand Adventures sometimes it's as
simple as deciding to bake cookies at 10
p.m. just because I feel like it or
rearranging my furniture on a Sunday
afternoon to see how it changes the room
these small acts of impulsiveness remind
me that life is meant to be enjoyed in
the moment not endlessly planned and
debated without the need to consider
another person's schedule preferences or
opinions I've been able to say yes to so
many things I might have previously said
side a last minute invitation to a
concert an impromptu lunch with friends
or even just deciding to spend the whole
day reading a good book these moments of
unstructured Joy have become the
highlights of my
days spontaneity has reignited a sense
of wonder in me a reminder that life is
full of surprises if we allow ourselves
to embrace them at 75 I've learned that
it's never too late to follow an Impulse
to lean into the unknown and to savor
the freedom of simply saying why
not nine personal growth never
stops there's a common misconception
that as we age we settle into who we are
with little room for growth or change
but being single at 75 has shown me that
life's opportunities for personal growth
are boundless no matter the number of
candles on your birthday cake in fact
this chapter chapter of life has been
one of the most transformative for me
because it's given me the time space and
freedom to invest in
myself when you're no longer tied to the
rhythms of a partner's life you have the
chance to reconnect with who you are and
explore who you can become I've taken
classes on topics that fascinate me from
watercolor painting to world history
these aren't just Hobbies their ways to
expand my mind challenge myself and find
joy in learning again there's something
deeply rewarding about diving into a
subject purely because it Sparks your
curiosity without any expectation of
perfection or
outcome personal growth isn't just about
learning new skills it's also about
inner reflection in my Quiet Moments I
Found the courage to confront Fears let
go of past regrets and embrace the
person I've become with age comes wisdom
but it also brings Clarity the ability
to see yourself with both compassion and
honesty being single has given me the
opportunity to do this work to grow
emotionally and spiritually in ways that
make me feel more
whole every day feels like a chance to
discover something new about the world
about others and about
myself I've come to see this stage of
life not as a winding down but as an
unfolding a time to deepen my connection
to the things that truly matter and let
go of anything that doesn't personal
growth doesn't stop it evolves and in
this stage of life it's a gift I've
learned to
cherish 10 A Renewed appreciation for
life at 75 life feels different not in a
lesser sense but in a richer more
textured way being single has opened my
eyes to the everyday miracle I once
might have overlooked without the noise
and busyness of shared schedules and
compromises I've discovered a deeper
appreciation for the simple profound
beauty of life
itself I wake up each morning with
gratitude for another day another chance
to see the sun rise and feel its warmth
there's a quiet joy in savoring the
little things a cup of coffee Brew just
the way I like it the sound of leaves
rustling in the breeze or the sight of
my garden blooming with colors I planted
months before these moments might seem
small but they hold a depth that fills
my days with
meaning this renewed appreciation has
also changed the way I approach time I
no longer rush through my days trying to
accomplish endless to-do lists or meet
someone else's expectations instead I
linger in the moments that bring me
happiness fully present and unburdened
by the weight of what's next life feels
less like a race and more like a journey
one that I can Savor at my own
pace perhaps most importantly being
single has taught me to embrace life's
impermanence knowing that every moment
is fleeting makes it all the more
precious I've stopped worrying about
what I don't have or what I might have
missed and instead I focus on what's
here now the beauty the opportunities
and the love that still surrounds me in
countless
forms this appreciation doesn't mean
ignoring life's challenges it means
facing them with resilience and Grace
it's about recognizing that while life
may not always be perfect it is always a
gift and in my 75 years I've learned
that the best way to honor that gift is
to live fully to love deeply and to find
joy in the simple Act of being
alive 11 complete experiences
alone there was a time in my life when I
believed that meaningful experiences
needed to be shared to be truly complete
moments of Joy accomplishment or even
simple beauty felt like they were
missing something if there wasn't
someone beside me to witness them but as
I've grown older and especially as I've
embraced being single at 75 I've
discovered that this belief couldn't be
further from the truth
experiences are no less profound or
complete simply because they're lived
alone in fact I found that some of my
most meaningful moments have come in
solitude watching a sunset while sitting
quietly by the water I felt a deep
connection to the world around me one
that didn't require words or
companionship to make it whole these
moments belong entirely to me unfiltered
and undiluted by the presence of
another being alone allows you to
immerse yourself fully in an experience
to feel its nuances without
distraction a walk through the woods
becomes more Vivid the crunch of leaves
underfoot the scent of pine in the air
the Symphony of bird song overhead
without anyone to share commentary or
divert attention you become a part of
the moment rather than just an
observer these solo experiences have
taught me that the value of a moment
lies in How Deeply you allow yourself to
feel it not not in how many people you
share it with they've also helped me
build a stronger relationship with
myself I've come to see Solitude not as
a void but as a canvas a space where I
can explore who I am and what truly
matters to me and in doing so I've
realized that I am my own most reliable
companion 12 a great world Beyond
marriage when I was younger I thought of
Life as a series of Milestones marriage
children a home a career these were the
markers of success the elements of a
complete
life but now at
75 I see life differently I've stepped
Beyond those traditional boundaries and
in doing so I've discovered a vast
vibrant world that exists outside of
marriage a world full of possibilities
freedom and
joy there's a kind of Courage required
to step into this world especially when
Society often emphasizes the importance
of partnership but once you take that
step you realize that life is not
limited by the roles you once played
being single allows you to redefine what
a fulfilling life looks like based not
on external expectations but on your own
desires and
dreams for me this has meant exploring
passions and Pursuits I might never have
considered it's meant building
relationships that aren't rooted in
obligation but in genuine connection
it's it's meant learning to embrace
Adventure whether it's trying something
new or simply stepping outside my
comfort zone most of all it's meant
discovering that happiness isn't
confined to a marriage or a shared home
it's found in the life you create for
yourself this great world Beyond
marriage is not about rejecting love or
companionship it's about expanding the
definition of what a meaningful life can
be
it's about finding joy and the freedom
to choose the space to grow and the
opportunity to live
authentically at
75 I've learned that life doesn't end
where marriage does it begins a new and
the possibilities are as Limitless as
you allow them to be closing
thoughts as I reflect on this journey of
life now well into my 75th year I
realized that the chapters we live are
as unique as the individuals we are
being single at this stage isn't simply
a status it's a celebration of
self-discovery freedom and the
remarkable resilience of the human
spirit it's not a life defined by what
is missing but one shaped by the
abundance of what remains and what is
yet to
come this isn't about dismissing the
beauty or value of marriage it's about
honoring the path that unfolds after it
or in its absence life is a series of
Transformations and each phase brings
its own lessons and gifts for me being
single has been an opportunity to
embrace autonomy reconnect with passions
and cultivate a relationship with myself
that is both fulfilling and
enriching the wisdom of age has taught
me that Joy isn't found in Perfection or
in living according to someone else's
blueprint it's found in The Quiet
Moments the Bold choices and the
realization that we are always capable
of growth Even in our later years it's
found in the courage to step away from
the familiar and into the unknown
trusting that life still holds wonders
to
discover at 75 I've learned to celebrate
the life I have rather than more in the
life I might have
imagined I've come to see every day as a
gift a chance to explore to connect to
savor and to Simply Be the richness of
life is not measured by who walks beside
you but by How Deeply you walk your own
path and in walking mine I found a
profound sense of Peace purpose and
joy so whether you're single by choice
by circumstance or by chance know this
life is vast and its potential is
boundless every Sunrise is an invitation
to live fully and authentically to
embrace the beauty of your journey and
to trust that the best is never behind
you it's always
ahead these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero
your feedback means a lot to us don't
forget to like share and subscribe to
our YouTube channel for more content
like this thank you for watching and
here's to living life on your own terms