um I'm 70 I am a rare gem here's
why aging is often treated as a burden
or a shadow creeping into our lives but
the truth is reaching 70 is a profound
Milestone it's not just a number it's a
badge of honor a testament to resilience
and a culmination of all the experiences
triumphs and even failures that make up
a life well-lived
at 70 I've come to realize that I am a
rare gem not because of perfection but
because of the uniqueness carved by time
pressure and life's unpredictable
Journey if you're reading this and
you're in your 60s 70s or Beyond let me
remind you so are you if you enjoyed
this video give it a thumbs up don't
forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update
one the beauty of a life lived
fully as I look back on the Decades of
my life I see something
extraordinary not Perfection not a
smooth or polished story but a life that
has been fully and deeply lived my
memories are like threads in a vast
tapestry each one unique contributing to
the rich picture of who I am today some
threads are golden moments of Joy love
and Triumph that Shimmer even after all
these years others are darker losses
struggles and regrets that have left
their marks but together they create
something breathtakingly beautiful my
story when I was younger I was caught in
the Whirlwind of doing achieving and
chasing dreams I wanted life to look a
certain way to fit a picture I thought
it should now at 70 I see life's Beauty
was never in its neatness it was in the
mess the unexpected twists and the
imperfections each mistake I made each
detour I took added depth and meaning my
life has been a mosaic made richer with
every choice whether wise or
foolish there's something profoundly
humbling about reaching this age and
realizing the enormity of all that has
happened I have loved fiercely grieved
deeply and grown in ways I never thought
possible I carry these experiences not
as burdens but as Treasures they have
shaped me into who I am am a rare gem
forged in the fire of life's challenges
and Polished by its moments of
Grace the beauty of living fully is not
about the grand achievements it's about
the quiet triumphs finding the strength
to keep going when life felt unbearable
learning to forgive myself for mistakes
and discovering joy in the simplest
moments if you're reading this remember
that your life too is a masterpiece no
matter how unfinished or more messy it
may feel every chapter matters and every
moment has
value two The Power of
perspective if there's one gift that age
bestows it's perspective at 70 I see the
world differently than I did at 30 or
even 50 life wants a frantic race to
prove myself has slowed into something
more deliberate more meaning meaningful
I've learned to focus on what truly
matters and to let go of the rest and
what a gift that has
been when I was younger I worried
endlessly about what others thought of
me whether I was doing enough or whether
I had chosen the right
path those worries felt so heavy at the
time but looking back now I realized
most of them didn't matter the people
who truly cared about me never judged me
the opportunities I missed led me to
others I couldn't have imagined the
mistakes I made were simply less lesons
waiting to be
learned with the clarity of age I've
come to understand what truly holds
value relationships love kindness and
The Quiet Moments that make up the
essence of life I no longer measure my
worth by the standards of success or
approval that once seemed so critical
instead I measure it by the love I give
the peace I feel and the joy I can find
even in the smallest
things perspective is also o taught me
to appreciate time in a way I never did
before when you're young time feels
infinite you waste it without a second
thought always assuming there will be
more at 70 I treasure each day not out
of fear but out of gratitude time is
finite yes but that makes it precious I
no longer spend it on things that drain
me or leave me empty I invested in the
people I love the passions that fulfill
me and The Simple Pleasures that bring
me
peace perhaps the greatest lesson
perspective has taught me is this it's
okay to let go let go of grudges that
serve no purpose let go of regrets for
things you can't change let go of the
need to control everything life has a
way of working itself out even if it
doesn't always look the way we imagined
and when we release those burdens we
make space for joy
connection and
love perspective isn't something you can
learn from a book or a lecture it's
earned through living through heartbreak
and healing through failure and success
through moments of doubt and Clarity
it's one of the most precious Gifts of
aging and it's something I wouldn't
trade for anything if you're feeling
weighed down by the worries of Life take
a step back look at how far you've come
and trust that the road ahead though
uncertain holds it its own
Beauty three you are a reservoir of
wisdom at 70 I carry within me the
wealth of a lifetime a treasure chest
filled with experiences lessons and
stories that no classroom or textbook
could ever
teach this wisdom didn't come easily it
was earned through the ups and downs the
victories and mistakes the laughter and
tears I've lived long enough to
understand that wisdom isn't about
knowing all the answers but about
learning the right questions to
ask when I was younger I often
underestimated the value of the lessons
life was teaching me I focused on
immediate goals ticking off boxes and
moving forward without pausing to
reflect but now I can see how every
challenge shaped me every detour added
depth and every Wrong Turn taught me
something I couldn't have learned
otherwise wisdom isn't something that
can be rushed it takes time and time is
something we the elders have been
blessed to
experience what makes this wisdom
special is its
practicality it's not abstract or
theoretical it's rooted in lived reality
I know the value of patience because
I've seen the consequences of rushing I
understand the importance of kindness
because I've witnessed how a small
gesture can Ripple into something
profound I recognize the necessity of
resilience because I faced moments when
giving up seemed easier but pressing on
was worth
it wisdom also gives us the ability to
guide others not by dictating their
choices but by sharing our stories
younger Generations may not always ask
for our advice but they need the
perspective we offer our lived
experiences are a roadmap for navigating
Life's uncertainties a reminder that no
matter how hard things get there is a
way
through as I reflect on this reservoir
of wisdom I feel a responsibility to
share it it's not just mine to keep it's
a legacy to pass
on whether through a conversation a
written letter or simply the way I live
I want my wisdom to be a gift to those
who come after me and if you're reading
this remember you too are a reservoir of
wisdom don't underestimate the power of
your experiences they are Treasures
waiting to be
shared four embracing purpose in the
later
years there's a misconception that as we
grow older our purpose diminishes as if
meaning belongs only to the young but at
70 I've discovered that purpose doesn't
Fade with time it evolves it shifts
deepens and sometimes takes forms we
never imagined if anything my sense of
purpose has grown richer more profound
and more grounded in what truly
matters when I was younger purpose often
felt tied to achievement it was about
building a career raising a family or
chasing dreams those were meaningful
chapters but they weren't the whole
story now at this stage of life I see
purpose as something quieter yet no less
powerful it's found in the relationships
I nurture the wisdom I pass on in the
simple ways I contribute to the World
Around
Me purpose isn't about doing more it's
about being present it's in the time I
spend with loved ones listening without
distraction offering my presence as a
gift it's in the moments when I can lend
a helping hand or a kind word to someone
who needs it it's it's in the way I care
for myself honoring my body and spirit
with the same love I give to
others finding purpose doesn't mean
searching for something Grand or
life-changing it can be as simple as
tending a garden volunteering at a local
charity or sharing a story that helps
someone feel less alone purpose is about
connection connection to others to the
world and to ourselves it's about
recognizing that even the smallest
actions can create ripples that touch
lives in ways we may never
see at 70 I also recognize that purpose
is deeply personal it's not something
others Define for us it's something we
discuss discover within and it's never
too late to find or ReDiscover it
there's a unique freedom in this stage
of Life a chance to focus on what brings
true fulfillment without the
distractions or expectations of earlier
years for me purpose is now about Legacy
not in the sense of leaving behind
wealth or achievements but in leaving
behind love kindness and wisdom it's
about knowing that my presence in the
world has made it a little brighter a
little better and that I believe is the
greatest purpose of
all if you're reading this and wondering
whether your life still holds meaning
let me assure you it does your purpose
hasn't disappeared it's simply waiting
for you to embrace it in new and
beautiful
ways
five resilience a Hallmark of survival
at 70 resilience isn't just a trait I
admire it's the foundation of who I am
life as it does for everyone has thrown
its share of storms my way I've faced
losses I thought I couldn't bear
challenges that tested every fiber of my
being and changes that forced me to
adapt in ways I never
imagined and yet here I stand not just
surviving but thriving
this isn't because I'm unshakable but
because I've learned the art of rising
again after every
fall resilience isn't about pretending
the hard times don't hurt they do it's
about finding the strength to keep
moving forward even when the weight of a
life feels unbearable I've learned to
carry that weight with Grace not by
denying its existence but by refusing to
let it Define me I've faced heartbreaks
that left me breathless yet over time I
found ways to Breathe Again the cracks
in my heart didn't break me they let the
light in making me stronger wiser and
more
compassionate resilience also means
learning to live with change there were
moments in my life when I had to say
goodbye to things I loved careers that
ended friends who moved on loved ones
who passed away each goodbye was a
lesson in letting go and each loss was a
reminder of life's
impermanence but in those lessons I
discovered something profound resilience
is not just about holding on it's also
about learning when to release to trust
that even in loss there is space for
growth today I wear my resilience like a
badge of honor it's not visible to the
world but it's etched into every part of
me it's in the way I face each new day
with hope despite the aches and
challenges that come with
age it's in my my ability to find beauty
in the simplest things even when life
feels
uncertain resilience doesn't mean I'm
Invincible it means I've endured I've
learned and I found joy in the
journey and if you're reading this know
that resilience is within you too you've
survived every moment of your life so
far and that makes you stronger than you
realize six the joy of Aging
aging often comes wrapped in stereotypes
of Decline and loss but at 70 I've
discovered something unexpected Joy not
the fleeting exuberant Joy Of Youth but
a deeper quieter kind of happiness that
comes from truly understanding life's
value aging has taught me to appreciate
the moments I once overlooked to savor
the beauty that surrounds me and to find
contentment and
simplicity the joy of Aging lies in the
freedom it brings
gone are the pressures to prove myself
to climb ladders or to meet the
expectations of others at this stage of
life I can live authentically embracing
who I am without apology I've shed the
need to please everyone or to strive for
Perfection and in doing so I've
discovered a profound sense of peace
there's a unique joy in knowing I've
earned the right to just be to live on
my terms with no need for validation
from anyone
else this Joy
also comes from
gratitude when I wake up in the morning
I no longer take the day for granted
every Sunrise feels like a gift every
moment with the loved ones a
treasure I've learned to find happiness
in the little things the warmth of a cup
of coffee the laughter of a grandchild
the Stillness of a quiet afternoon these
moments once so easy to overlook now
fill my heart in ways I never
expected of course aging has its
challenges my body isn't as strong as it
once was and there are days when I feel
the weight of the years but instead of
focusing on what I've lost I choose to
celebrate what I still have I may move
more slowly but I move with
intention I may forget small details but
I remember the things that truly matter
this shift and perspective has allowed
me to embrace aging not as a loss but as
a new chapter filled with its own unique
Joys what I've learned is this Joy
doesn't come from what you have or what
you achieve it comes from appreciating
the present from finding Beauty in the
ordinary and from knowing that every day
is an opportunity to create memories to
connect with others and to live
fully at 70 I'm more aware than ever of
life's fragility but that awareness
doesn't bring fear it brings Joy it
reminds me to cherish every moment and
to live with an open
heart if you're reading this and
wondering what Joy looks like in this
stage of life let me tell you it's
everywhere it's in the connections you
nurture the passions you pursue and the
simple Act of being present aging
doesn't take joy away it brings it
closer if only we we open our hearts to
see it
seven letting go of
fear at 70 I've learned something that
has Set Me Free fear no longer controls
me when I was younger fear was a
constant companion it whispered doubts
in my ear told me I wasn't good enough
and held me back from taking risks that
might have led to failure I feared
rejection judgment loss and even success
fear kept me small when life was asking
me to be
bold but the gift of age is Clarity I
now see fear for what it is a thief of
Joy a barrier to growth and a voice that
loses its power the moment you stop
listening to it over the years I've
realized most of the things I was afraid
of never actually happened and even when
they did I survived the pain wasn't
permanent the embarrassment wasn't fatal
and the world didn't end I've endured
every storm and with each one fear's
grip loosened a little little
more now I live with a sense of Freedom
that feels like a weight lifted from my
shoulders I no longer worry about what
others think of me the opinions of
others once so important have faded into
the background what matters now is
living authentically embracing Who I Am
with all my imperfections and finding
joy in the life I've
built I've learned to forgive myself for
past mistakes to let go of regrets and
to release the burdens that once kept me
awake at
night letting go of fear doesn't mean
I've become Fearless it means I've
learned to move forward despite fear's
presence when doubts creep in I remind
myself of all I've overcome and suddenly
fear seems small compared to the
strength I've
gained this is the power of age knowing
that you face the worst and come out
stronger if you're reading this I hope
you give yourself the gift of Letting Go
fear only has power if you allow it
trust yourself trust your journey and
know that you're capable of more than
you
imagine I eight connecting with
others aging has taught me that
connection is one of the most precious
gifts we can give and receive in our
younger years we're often too busy to
truly nurture relationships life is a
blur of responsibilities deadlines and
distractions and meaningful connections
can get lost in the noise but at 70 the
noise has quieted and what remains is a
deep understanding of the importance of
the people in our
lives connection doesn't have to be
grand or elaborate it's often found in
the simplest gestures it's in the warmth
of a phone call with an old friend the
shared laughter over a family dinner or
the silent comfort of sitting with
someone who understands you without
words these moments remind us that we
are not alone that our lives are
intertwined with those of others in ways
that are beautiful and
profound for me some of the most
meaningful relationships have been
forged later in life as I've grown older
I found a deeper appreciation for the
bonds I share with others there's a
richness to these connections that
wasn't always there in my youth with age
comes a greater capacity for empathy
patience and understanding ing I no
longer feel the need to prove myself in
relationships instead I approach them
with openness and gratitude knowing that
every connection is a
gift but connection is not just about
others it's also about connecting with
ourselves in the Stillness of this stage
of life I've had the opportunity to
reflect on who I am what I value and
what truly brings me joy this inner
connection has been just as
transformative as my relationships with
others it has allowed me to live more
authentically and to give more
fully if there's one thing I've learned
it's that it's never too late to connect
whether with old friends new
acquaintances or even parts of ourselves
we've neglected reaching out can feel
vulnerable but it's worth it connection
is What Gives Life Meaning and it's
through these bonds that we leave a
lasting Legacy of love and
kindness so if you're reading this I
encourage you to take a moment to
connect call someone you've been
thinking about write a letter or simply
sit in quiet reflection and reconnect
with your own heart in a world that
often feels fragmented connection is the
thread that holds us together and at 70
I've come to see it as one of the
greatest treasures of all nine
embracing
change at 70 I've come to understand
that life is defined by change the years
have brought countless Transformations
some welcome others unexpected and a few
that felt unbearable in their weight but
through it all I've learned that change
while often challenging is what allows
us to grow adapt and uncover the parts
of ourselves we didn't know existed
there was a time when change frightened
me I resisted it clinging to the comfort
of what was familiar but life and its
Infinite Wisdom doesn't wait for us to
be ready change sweeps in like the tide
sometimes gentle sometimes fierce but
always
Unstoppable over the years I've come to
see change not as a threat but as an
invitation to learn to evolve and to
discover new
possibilities some of the most profound
changes I've faced have come with aging
my body no longer moves as easily as it
once did and my reflection in the mirror
tells a story of time's passage there
have been losses friends and loved ones
whose absence I feel deeply and changes
to my daily routines as I've adjusted to
new
limitations yet in these changes I've
found strength I didn't know I had I've
discovered the beauty of slowing down of
cherishing each moment rather than
rushing through
life change has also taught me the value
of flexibility it's easy to get stuck in
our ways to hold on to the belief that
things should remain as they are but
when we let go of that rigidity we open
ourselves to new experiences whether
it's learning to navigate technology
exploring a new hobby or embracing a new
phase of life change keeps us vibrant
and
engaged at 70 I no longer fear change I
welcome it as a reminder that life is
dynamic always unfolding in ways we
can't predict and while change often
comes with loss it also brings
opportunities for
Renewal if you're reading this and
facing change that feels overwhelming
know that you're not alone trust in your
ability to adapt and grow life's changes
while sometimes difficult are what make
us resilient wise and uniquely
human 10 aging with
gratitude you f he if there's one thing
that defines my life at 70 it's
gratitude not the fleeting kind of
gratitude that comes with getting what
you want but a deep abiding appreciation
for life itself the joys the struggles
and everything in
between gratitude I've learned is not
about having everything you desire but
about seeing the value and what you
already
have when I was younger gratitude came
easily in moments of Triumph a promotion
a celebration or a dream fulfilled but
as I've aged I've discovered that true
gratitude is found in the quieter
moments it's in the warmth of the
morning sun on my face the laughter
shared with a loved one the memories
that surface when I hear an old song
it's in the simple fact that I'm still
here breathing feeling and
living aging with gratitude doesn't mean
ignoring life's difficulties I faced my
share of losses friends who've passed
dreams that didn't come to fruition in
parts of myself I've had to let go of
but even in the midst of these losses
gratitude has been my anchor it reminds
me that for every sorrow there has been
Joy for every goodbye there was once a
hello gratitude doesn't erase the pain
but it softens it making space for
healing and
hope gratitude has also taught me to
live in the present at 70 I no longer
dwell on what could have been or worry
about what lies ahead instead I focus on
the Here and Now savoring each moment as
it comes time feels more precious than
ever and gratitude helps me make the
most of it I've learned to appreciate
the ordinary the cup of tea in the
morning the sound of birds outside my
window the feeling of contentment that
comes with a quiet
day living with gratitude has
transformed the way I see the world it's
helped me recognize the abundance in my
life not in material possessions but in
the love connections and experiences
that have shaped me and as I reflect on
my journey I feel a profound sense of
thankfulness not just for the good times
but for the challenges too they've
taught me resilience compassion and the
importance of cherishing what truly
matters if you're reading this I invite
you to pause for a moment and think
about what you're grateful for it
doesn't have have to be something big
often it's the smallest things that
bring the greatest joy gratitude is a
practice a way of seeing the world
through a lens of appreciation and at 70
I can say with certainty that it's one
of the greatest gifts we can give
ourselves a final reflection celebrating
the rare gem you
are at 70 I've come to see life as both
fragile and infinite a paradox that
holds found beauty the years behind me
are rich with memories lessons and love
while the days ahead remain a canvas yet
to be painted in this stage of life I no
longer measure time by the Milestones I
achieve but by the depth of the moments
I live and in these moments I've
discovered my worth not as something to
be earned but as something inherent
something
Timeless we are all rare gems shaped by
the pressures of Life Polished by our
struggles in minated by the light of our
Joys the world may often Overlook the
Brilliance of age but that does not
diminish its value if anything it makes
our light more extraordinary each
wrinkle is a mark of wisdom each gray
hair a strand of resilience each story a
facet of the gem we've
become as I reflect I realize that being
a rare gem isn't about standing out it's
about shining in ways that matter it's
about the love we've given the lives
we've touched and the legacy of kindness
wisdom and strength We Leave
Behind at 70 I no longer seek to prove
my worth I know it simply exists as does
yours if there's one thing I hope you
take from this reflection it's this your
life has meaning your experiences your
challenges your triumphs they all
contribute to a story that only you can
tell in Embrace who you are cherish the
journey you've traveled and trust that
you are a gift to this
world as we continue forward let us walk
with gratitude courage and an open heart
let us Embrace change connect deeply and
live with purpose let us celebrate not
just what we've done but who we've
become for at this moment at every
moment we are rare gems unmatched
unbreakable and unforgettably
radiant these lessons are meant to
inspire you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms