did you know that as we grow older our
body begins to release new unfamiliar
smells even if we shower regularly and
take care of our
hygiene it's not a sign of
failure it's not about being
dirty it's actually a natural part of
aging but it can also be a quiet signal
that something inside your body needs
care attention and maybe a little
change if you've ever noticed a musty
sour greasy or metallic scent lingering
on your skin in your clothes or on your
bed sheets even after bathing please
know
this You are not
alone and even better you can do
something about
it below I'll share five common body
odors many seniors experience after 60
what each one really means and the
simple powerful step you can take to
reverse it
finally I'll leave you with one daily
habit that can change
everything let's
begin one the musty smell your skin is
changing have you ever caught a faint
musty scent on your clothes your bedding
or even your skin and wondered where it
came from it may not be strong but it
lingers a mix between something old
slightly sour and hard to describe
you wash regularly you keep your space
clean yet somehow that smell seems to
follow
you this isn't your imagination and it's
not poor hygiene this subtle shift is
something many older adults begin to
notice after 60 it's not a flaw it's a
signal a sign that your skin the largest
organ of your body is quietly
changing as we age our skin starts to
produce a compound called nonanol it's a
byproduct of the natural breakdown of
fatty acids on the skin surface in our
younger years antioxidants in the body
neutralize these byproducts before they
can cause odor but after 60 our
antioxidant levels Decline and those
fatty acids begin to oxidize more easily
that's when the musty scent begins to
emerge not from dirt but from the
chemistry of Aging
itself non Nal has a stubborn quality it
doesn't wash away with or ordinary soap
it clings to the skin and embeds itself
into Fabrics like cotton wool or even
the pillowcase where you rest your head
at night what's most frustrating is that
even a good hot shower may not be enough
to remove it and sometimes hot water can
make it worse by stripping the Skin's
Natural Balance and causing more dryness
which leads to more
odor but here's the hopeful truth once
you understand what's happening you can
take steps to fix it not just cover it
up but truly address the
cause the first step is to change the
way you cleanse your skin most soaps on
the market are too harsh or too perfumed
to be effective instead you need a ph
balanced body wash that works in harmony
with your skin not against it look for
natural ingredients like green tea which
gently breaks down toxins charcoal
which draws out and absorbs odor-causing
oils and citrus extracts which
neutralize odors and leave behind a
clean refreshing scent that doesn't
overwhelm but just applying it isn't
enough let the wash sit on your skin for
a full minute before rinsing give it
time to do its work and always use
lukewarm water never hot the difference
is real after a few consistent washes
your skin will not only feel better it
will carry a sense of freshness and
dignity that you can feel proud
of now while your skin plays a major
role in how you smell what's happening
inside your body can be just as powerful
and sometimes even more surprising so
what if the odor isn't coming from your
skin at all but from something much
deeper within let's explore that next
two the greasy or fatty smell your liver
is
overloaded there is a particular kind of
body odor that feels heavier than others
it's not just musty it's thick almost
greasy like old cooking oil left on the
stove too long you may notice it around
your neck your chest or behind your ears
it might settle into the collar of your
shirt or Linger on your pillowcase no
matter how often you change them it's
not just unpleasant it feels like
something your body is pushing out and
in truth that's exactly what's
happening what many older adults don't
realize is that this type of odor can be
a quiet but Urgent Message from one of
the most vital organs in the body the
liver as we age the liver's ability to
break down toxins and process fats
begins to slow this doesn't mean it's
failing it means it's working harder
than ever to keep up when the liver
becomes overwhelmed the body must find
other ways to eliminate waste and one of
the ways it does that is through the
skin this is what makes this greasy
fatty smell different it doesn't just
sit on the surface it rises up from
within carried out through your pores in
the form of oxidized oils leftover
metabolic waste and the residue of foods
your body can no longer handle the way
it wants did it's not a question of how
clean you are it's a reflection of how
efficiently your body is processing what
you put inside
it the solution doesn't lie in stronger
soaps or more frequent showers it begins
with how you nourish your body certain
foods especially fried foods processed
snacks and red meats create what's
called oxidative stress they burden your
liver flood your system them with hardto
process fats and leave behind compounds
that your body struggles to eliminate
the result they seep through your skin
and leave behind that unmistakable
greasy
scent but there is hope in fact there's
healing and it starts with choosing
foods that support your liver rather
than strain it leafy greens like spinach
kale and parsley contain chlorophyll a
natural internal cleanser that binds to
toxins and helps escort them out of the
body citrus fruits like lemon grapefruit
in oranges helps stimulate the liver's
natural detox Pathways drinking warm
lemon water in the morning before
anything else gently wakes up your
digestive system and prepares your body
to eliminate waste more effectively
throughout the
day you are not stuck with this smell it
is not permanent it's a reflection of
what's happening inside and you have the
power to shift it eating clean Whole
Living Foods is not just about longevity
it's about living each day with more
clarity energy and comfort in your own
skin and yet not every odor comes from
deep inside some scents are sharp sour
and immediate appearing almost out of
nowhere even after you've eaten well or
stayed hydrated what causes is that the
answer may surprise you and it has
everything to do with your gut let's
take a closer look three the ammonia or
urin likee smell your kidneys are
signaling
you it's a scent that no one wants to
talk about but many seniors begin to
notice it a sharp slightly sour smell
that resembles ammonia or even urine you
may catch it in the armpits near the
groin or on clothing at the end of the
day you wash you wear clean clothes and
still it returns it can feel confusing
even embarrassing especially when you've
done nothing wrong but this odor while
unpleasant is also deeply informative
it's your body's quiet cry for help and
it's worth listening
to what you're smelling could be a
signal from your kidneys these two small
organs are responsible for filtering
waste from your blood and helping your
body stay balanced
but as you age your kidneys like every
other part of your body begin to work a
bit harder to keep up when you're not
drinking enough water or eating foods
that support Kidney Health those waste
products particularly Ura and ammonia
can build up and when the kidneys can't
flush them out quickly enough your body
finds another way to release them
through your
sweat this is why the smell is so
distinct and why it often lingers
despite good hygiene it's not just
surface level it's coming from within a
reflection of how well or poorly your
body is processing and eliminating
toxins and while that may sound
troubling it also offers you an
opportunity to act because the truth is
your kidneys are resilient they respond
remarkably well when given what they
need the most essal need is hydration
not just any liquid but clean pure water
not tea not coffee not soda just water
so many older adults don't drink enough
of it often because they don't feel as
thirsty as they once did but by the time
thirst appears your body is already in
need dehydration forces your kidneys to
work harder and when they fall behind
those waste compounds leak leak out
through your
skin start by making water a conscious
part of your day sip it slowly and
steadily from morning tonight add a
squeeze of lemon to Aid in gentle
detoxification and help your liver and
kidneys work together you might be
surprised how much can change simply by
staying well hydrated not only can the
odor fade but your energy focus and skin
Health can all improve
too there's another piece to this puzzle
one many seniors Overlook
entirely protein when you consume more
protein than your body can use or
process the excess breaks down into
nitrogen-based waste if your kidneys
can't handle the load that waste shows
up on your skin as odor balance is the
key choose lean proteins in moderate
amounts and pair them with hydrating
fruits and
vegetables this ammonal likee scent
doesn't have to stay with attention and
Care your body can return to a cleaner
more comfortable state but while some
odors rise from internal imbalance
others come from an entirely different
place your digestive system and when
your gut is out of syn the effects reach
far beyond your stomach in fact they may
show up on your skin let's explore how
four the sour smell your gut is
talking there's a certain kind of odor
that doesn't quite smell like sweat or
Body Oil it's sharper more acidic it may
remind you of vinegar or fermented food
and it tends to show up around the chest
the underarms or the neck often it
becomes more noticeable in the late
afternoon or early evening even after a
fresh shower if you've experience this
you may feel confused even frustrated
because it doesn't seem to make sense
but but in truth that sour scent may be
telling you something important
something many people Overlook it's your
gut trying to get your
attention as we grow older the balance
of bacteria in our digestive system
begins to shift years of medications
antibiotics stress processed foods and
even natural aging can reduce the
population of good bacteria in the gut
when that happens the body 's ability to
digest and absorb nutrients weakens food
breaks down differently sometimes more
slowly or incompletely and when this
happens the body creates more waste
gases and acidic compounds many of which
don't stay
inside they rise up and exit through the
skin that's why this sour smell is more
than just surface level it's not about
cleanliness it's about your inner
environment it's about how well your gut
is functioning and how harmoniously your
digestion is working with the rest of
your body when digestion is poor your
skin often becomes the backup route for
elimination it shows up as odor and
sometimes even as irritation or
dryness but here's the hopeful part your
gut can heal your body is designed for
Renewal even at 70 even at 80 and Beyond
the first step is to restore the balance
of your digestive system beginning with
what you feed
it you can start by introducing more
probiotic rich foods simple things like
yogurt kefir sauerkraut or fermented
pickles these aren't just old folk
remedies they are living Foods full of
beneficial bacteria that help
reestablish balance in your gut adding
Prebiotic foods like bananas oats and
leafy greens can nourish those good
bacteria so they thrive
equally important is what you
remove processed sugars fried foods and
white flowers feed the harmful bacteria
that disrupt your gut and produce foul
smelling byproducts by cutting back on
those and increasing fiber hydration and
plant-based meals you create an inner
environment that is not only healthier
but noticeably
fresher this sour body odor is not
permanent
it is
reversible and as your digestion
improves you'll find not only that the
scent Fades but that your energy
stabilizes your mood lifts and your
immune system strengthens because your
gut isn't just your stomach it's a
foundation for your entire
well-being but odor doesn't always come
from
within sometimes despite everything
you're doing right eating well hydrating
using gentle soap you still find
yourself surrounded by a lingering stale
scent and the truth is the answer may
not be on your skin at all it may be
clinging to what's touching your skin
every single day let's talk about that
next five the stale clothes smell your
Fabrics are holding on to
odor there's a particular kind of odor
that seems to come not from your body
but from your surroundings you catch it
when you open your closet or when you
sit on your favorite chair it's subtle
but persistent a kind of stale lived in
smell that reminds you of old Fabric or
forgotten corners of the house and
here's the hardest part even after you
bathe even when your skin is fresh the
scent returns it hides in your clothing
your sheets your pillow cases and it
follows you it can leave you wondering
if people notice it before they notice
you
this isn't your imagination as we age
not only does our body begin producing
different oils and compounds like non-al
but our environment becomes part of the
equation the Fabrics we live in are
clothes bedding cushions and towels
absorb everything our skin releases they
soak in sweat natural oils and even
microscopic skin cells over time those
materials trap the very compounds we're
trying to remove
they don't just hold them they lock them
in and unfortunately regular detergent
often isn't strong enough to fully break
down those
residues seniors often spend more time
at home more time resting more time
close to the materials that surround
them a favorite recliner a cozy blanket
a familiar cardigan these are Comforts
of life but they can become
unintentional carriers of odor if not
properly cared for synthetic fabrics
like polyester or nylon are especially
prone to holding on to Smells they don't
breathe well so the oils and compounds
released from your body stay trapped you
can wash them again and again and still
the scent
remains but here's the good news you
don't need to throw everything out or
feel helpless you simply need to bring
more awareness to your environment and
treat your Fabrics with the same care
you give to your body Begin by choosing
breathable natural materials like cotton
and linen whenever possible they allow
air to circulate and they release odors
more easily in the wash wash your bed
sheets and pillowcases at least twice a
week these are the Fabrics closest to
your skin night after night and don't
forget about your towels damp towels can
Harbor bacteria and deepen unwanted
smells when it comes to laundry don't
rely on detergent alone adding half a
cup of white vinegar to your rinse cycle
can be transformative vinegar breaks
down the molecules that carry odor it
doesn't just cover up the smell it
neutralizes it at the source you'll
notice the difference in how your
clothes feel how your sheets smell and
how your space welcomes you
again sometimes it's not about scrubbing
harder or masking more it's about
remembering that the spaces and
materials around us are part of our
health too you deserve to live in a home
and in clothes that make you feel clean
cared for and truly at
ease now while your environment plays a
major role in how fresh you feel each
day there's one final key to Bringing
everything together it's a daily habit
simple but often forgotten and it has
the power to not only change how you
smell but how you feel in your own skin
let's explore it next six six the daily
habit that ties it all together
exfoliate your
skin in our younger years we hardly
think about the surface of our skin it
sheds renews and breathes without much
attention but as we grow older the skin
becomes more than just a protective
layer it becomes a reflection of our
internal health our habits and even our
memories it holds on to the sun we've
walked beneath the stress we've carried
and the quiet changes taking place
inside our bodies and if we aren't
gently helping it release the past it
starts to hold on to things that no
longer serve us dead skin cells oils
toxins and yes
odor many older adults don't realize
that the skin naturally slows down its
turnover process with age where once new
skin cells push the old ones out
efficiently now those dead cells linger
longer they collect on the surface like
dust on a window sill trapping sweat
sebum and oxidized oils beneath and over
time these layers can not only dull the
appearance of the skin but amplify body
odor regardless of how clean you keep
yourself you might be washing daily even
using the best soap but if you're not
removing what's already built up the new
freshness never fully reaches
you this is where exfoliation becomes
essential not just for Hygiene but for
self
self-respect exfoliating your skin is an
act of renewal it is a way of saying I
deserve to feel new again it doesn't
require harsh scrubs or expensive Tools
in fact gentleness is key a soft natural
brush a warm washcloth or a mild
exfoliating glove can help you loosen
and lift the buildup that may be causing
persistent odors or that sticky unclean
feeling that know soap can
touch the best time to exfoliate is
before your shower when your skin is dry
and the surface cells are easiest to
brush away move in slow circular motions
never scrubbing hard just guiding your
skin back to
breathability then as you step into the
shower and cleanse with your ph balanced
wash you'll notice the difference
immediately the soap can reach your skin
more deeply your skin feels smoother
fresher More
Alive what's powerful about this habit
is that it's not just about odor it's
about Awakening the skin stimulating
circulation and allowing the body to
detox more efficiently over time regular
exfoliation can help your lotions absorb
better your skin tone even out and your
confidence return you'll feel cleaner
not only on the outside but from within
it's never too late to tend to your skin
with intention this small Act of care
done once or twice a week can become a
ritual of
self-respect a moment of quiet attention
to your own
well-being a reminder that you are not
fading you are
renewing and now having explored these
six essential steps each one connected
to the smells our body carry and the
deeper truths they reveal we come full
circle because this isn't just about
fighting odor it's about honoring the
body you live in it's about
understanding what it needs now at this
stage of life in meeting those needs
with wisdom Grace and
compassion aging with Grace honoring the
body embracing the
season aging is not something to be
hidden from it is not a problem to solve
or a weakness to fix it is a long and
meaningful Journey a collection of
seasons of stories lived of lessons
learned the hard way and the soft way
our bodies carry the weight of those
years and yes sometimes they speak to us
in new ways a strange smell a shift in
how we feel in our skin these are not
embarrassments they are messages and
when we choose choose to listen we take
back our
power what you've read here is not just
about body odor it's about awareness
it's about caring enough to notice the
quiet signals and responding with
patience with intention and with
kindness whether it's adjusting the
products you use changing the way you
nourish your body or simply refreshing
the space you live in every step is an
act of self-respect
you deserve to feel fresh you deserve to
move through each day without worry
without the burden of discomfort or
self-consciousness not because you are
trying to look young again but because
you are honoring who you are
now this season of life is not a closing
chapter it is a deeper one and with the
right care the right habits and the
right understanding it can be your most
confident and comfortable season yet
these lessons are meant to inspire you
to live fully and authentically now I'd
love to hear from you take a moment to
reflect and share one thing you've
learned and plan to apply in your own
life let's support each other on this
journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms