seven colors that don't flatter women
over 65 advice from old
people fashion is a powerful tool it's
not about following Trends it's about
wearing colors and styles that make you
feel beautiful confident and vibrant as
we age our skin tone hair color and even
the way we carry ourselves naturally
change however many women over 65 still
wear colors that suited them in their
younger years without realizing how
these Shades now affect their complexion
and overall
appearance the truth is some colors can
wash you out add years to your look or
make you appear tired but the good news
is that small adjustments can completely
transform your wardrobe and
confidence today we'll discuss seven
colors that often work against women
over
65 and more importantly what to wear
instead for a radiant youthful
glow one cool toned gray the invisible
effect there was a time when gray was
considered the perfect neutral
sophisticated
understated effortlessly elegant but for
women over 65 not all Grays are created
equal cool toned Grays especially pale
steel or slate Shades often have an
unintended consequence they make you
disappear I first noticed this when my
dear friend Margaret a vibrant
70-year-old with a personality as warm
as a Summer Breeze confided in me I used
to love my gray sweaters she said but
lately when I catch my reflection I just
look
drained it wasn't her age that had
changed her but rather the way cool
grays interacted with her evolving skin
tone and silver hair
instead of enhancing her features they
muted them instead of complimenting her
complexion they created Shadows that
made her look tired almost
ghostly the problem with cool toned gray
is that it lacks warmth as we age our
skin naturally loses some of its
youthful glow and without the right
colors to reflect light onto our face we
can appear dull or washed out if you
have silver or white hair the risk is is
even greater cool gray can blend too
closely with your hair color creating a
monochromatic effect that strips away
definition rather than adding depth it
flattens your features making you look
less vibrant than you truly
are for women with fair skin this effect
is particularly noticeable gray can
highlight fine lines make under eye
circles more pronounced and remove the
natural Rosy from your cheeks on deeper
skin tones the wrong shade of gray can
look ashy or faded lacking the richness
needed to enhance your natural beauty no
matter your complexion a lifeless gray
does nothing to celebrate the wisdom and
experience you
carry but here's the good news gray
itself is not the enemy it's the
undertone that matters instead of
reaching for cold lifeless steel or
charcoal Embrace warmer Alternatives
taupe warm Stone mocha or even soft
beige with a hint of warmth can breathe
life back into your complexion these
Shades offer the same versatility as
gray but without the draining effect
they reflect light more gently bringing
a soft glow to your skin rather than
dulling
it Margaret took my advice swapped her
cool gray sweaters for a rich camel
cardigan the difference was immediate I
feel like someone turned the lights back
on she told me it wasn't just about the
color it was about how it made her feel
suddenly she wasn't blending into the
background anymore she was radiating
confidence warmth and the beauty that
had always been
there that's the power of color it
doesn't just change how you look it
changes how you see yourself so the next
time you reach for that gray sweater ask
yourself is this making me shine or is
it making me disappear the right shade
can keep you looking vibrant visible and
unmistakably you two Pure White the
harsh contrast
problem for decades white has been a
symbol of Elegance Simplicity and
effortless style a crisp white blouse a
tailored white Blazer these were the
Staples of power dressing the go-to
pieces that made any woman feel polished
and put together but something changes
as we age the same bright Pure White
that once looked fresh and striking can
suddenly feel unforgiving creating a
starcom contrast that highlights every
Fine Line Shadow and subtle change in
our complexion
I remember sitting with Evelyn a
72-year-old retired professor as she
sifted through her wardrobe she pulled
out a white linen blouse one she had
worn for years with pride I don't know
what happened she admitted I put this on
now and all I see is a tired face
staring back at
me it wasn't that Evelyn had changed it
was that her relationship with color had
changed the crisp cool white that once
once made her look sharp was now working
against
her Pure White especially in Stark
synthetic fabrics has a way of casting
Shadows on the face instead of
reflecting light in a way that softens
and brightens it often does the opposite
creating harsh divisions that emphasize
wrinkles dark circles and uneven skin
tone the contrast between a stark white
fabric and mature skin can be jarring
particularly for women with fair or cool
toned complexions
rather than offering a luminous glow
Pure White can wash out natural warmth
making the skin appear pale and
lifeless for women with silver or white
hair the problem can be even more
pronounced the lack of contrast between
hair and clothing can cause features to
disappear creating a flat colorless
effect and for those with deeper skin
tones Pure White can sometimes take on
ashy or chalky appearance muting the
natural richness of the complexion the
issue isn't with white itself it's with
the wrong kind of
white the solution is simple but C to
transformative choose warmer whites soft
Ivory cream or pearl white preserve the
Elegance of white without the harshness
these Shades provide a gentler contrast
against mature skin enhancing its
natural Radiance rather than working
against it they create a glow rather
than a glare reflecting warmth instead
of pulling it
away Evelyn decided to experiment she
replaced her bright white blouse with
one in a soft Ivory shade layering it
under a camel tone sweater the
difference was
striking I feel like myself again she
said smiling at her reflection and
that's the beauty of finding the right
color it doesn't just change how others
see you it changes how you see
yourself white still has a place in
every woman's wardrobe but the secret is
knowing which shade of white loves you
back so the next time you reach for that
crisp stark white ask yourself does this
color support the woman I am today the
right white doesn't compete with your
beauty it enhances it Embraces it and
lets it
Shine three pale pastels The Fading
effect soft pastels have long been
associated with femininity Grace and a
sense of delicate Beauty shades of baby
pink pale blue mint green and lavender
evoke images of Springtime renewal of
lightness and youth it's no surprise
that so many women have cherished these
colors throughout their lives but
something unexpected happens when we
enter our 60s and Beyond
pastels instead of lifting us can
sometimes make us Fade Into the
background I remember when my dear
friend Eleanor a 74-year-old former
artist came to me puzzled she had always
loved wearing soft pastel sweaters but
lately she felt something was off I look
at myself in the mirror and it's like
I've disappeared she told me I don't
look tired exactly but I don't look
alive either she was right her once
favorite pale lavender cardigan which
had once made her feel graceful and
refined was now washing her out the
color wasn't enhancing her natural
Radiance it was draining
it the issue with pale pastels is that
they often lack the depth and vibrancy
needed to bring mature skin to Life as
we age our skin naturally loses some of
the warmth and pigmentation it once had
the soft muted quality of pastels can
blend too closely with lighter or cooler
tone skin making us appear flat and
colorless
instead of brightening our complexion
pastels can inadvertently emphasize
paleness uneven skin tone or even fine
lines for women with silver or white
hair the effect can be even more
pronounced a pale blue sweater against
silver hair can create a cool icy
appearance that feels more severe than
Serene on deeper skin tones pastels can
sometimes appear chalky rather than
vibrant failing to enhance the richness
of the complexion the softness of these
Shades which once seemed so Charming
suddenly lacks the strength needed to
complement the wisdom and confidence we
now
carry but the answer isn't to abandon
pastels altogether it's to choose deeper
more complex versions of these colors
instead of baby pink opt for a rich Rose
or soft mauve rather than pale blue try
a Dusty Sapphire or muted teal swap out
pastel yellow for a warm honey or deep
gold these Shades still carry the
softness and femininity of pastels but
with enough depth to enhance rather than
fade Eleanor experimented with a deep
Rose blouse and the transformation was
instant I feel visible again she said
touching the fabric with delight she had
found a color that didn't overpower her
but also didn't let her disappear that's
the key choosing colors that support you
that reflect the richness of your life
and
experience the beauty of growing older
is that we don't have to blend in we can
stand out in the most graceful confident
way and color is one of the simplest
ways to make that happen so instead of
letting pastels fade you into the
background choose colors that give you
the depth and vibrancy you deserve
because a life well-lived should never
be muted it should
shine four black the Aging Shadow
creator for years black has been
celebrated as the ultimate wardrobe
essential Timeless
sophisticated effortlessly slimming it's
the color of Elegance the go-to choice
for everything from formal occasions to
Everyday Chic many women have relied on
black to feel put together to command
attention without being flashy but what
happens when the very color that once
made us feel powerful starts working
against
us I remember my dear friend Linda a
68-year-old retired lawyer who had built
her wardrobe around black it was my
safety net she told me smoothing down
the lapel of her favorite black blazer
whenever I didn't know what to wear I
reached for black it made me feel
confident but lately something had
changed I put on my usual black dress
and instead of looking sharp I just
looked tired she
admitted Linda wasn't imagining it black
while universally seen as a
sophisticated Choice has a unique
ability to create harsh Shadows on the
face and as we age those Shadows don't
always fall in flattering places the
Deep absorbing nature of of black can
emphasize Fine Lines dark circles and
the natural loss of volume in the face
making us appear more drawn or fatigued
than we actually are rather than
brightening the complexion black absorbs
light creating a stark contrast that can
be
unforgiving for women with fair skin the
effect can be particularly dramatic
black can make pale complexions appear
even paler sometimes border ing on
ghostly for those with silver or white
hair the contrast can be overwhelming
making hair appear dull rather than
luminous and for women with deeper skin
tones black can sometimes create a flat
heavy effect rather than enhancing the
richness of the
complexion but the issue isn't about
removing black from your wardrobe
entirely it's about wearing it more
strategically
black can still be a powerful color but
it often needs softening to work well
with mature skin one of the simplest
ways to do this is by choosing textured
Fabrics a soft black cashmere sweater or
a black lace blouse reflects light
differently than a flat matte black
garment adding depth through fabric
Choice can prevent the color from
looking too
severe another trick is to pair black
with colors that bring warmth to your
complexion instead of wearing black
close to your face introduce a silk
scarf in Rich jewel tones like deep
burgundy sapphire blue or emerald green
if you love your black blazer try
layering it over a cream camel or blush
toned blouse to soften the effect gold
or pearl jewelry can also add warmth
creating balance and light against the
darkness of black
Linda took this advice to heart she
swapped out her all black outfits for
charcoal gray deep Navy and Rich
espresso Brown and when she did wear
black she layered it with color and
texture the transformation was subtle
but powerful I don't look tired anymore
she told me one day I look like myself
again that's the key clothing should
never wear you down the right colors
should support and enhance your beauty
not cast Shadows over it black still has
its place in your wardrobe but it should
work for you not against you by making
thoughtful adjustments you can keep the
Elegance of black while ensuring it
doesn't agid you before your
time five bright neon colors the
overpowering
effect color has the power to lift our
mood to energize us and to bring out the
best in our natural features many women
have long embraced vibrant colors
feeling that bold shades make a
statement about their personality joyful
confident and full of life but as we
grow older some colors espe especially
bright neon tones start to work against
us rather than for
us I remember meeting Caroline a
70-year-old retired School principal
with a love for color I've always worn
bright Shades she she told me gesturing
to her neon pink blouse they make me
feel alive like I'm not fading away with
age but as she studied herself in the
mirror she sighed lately I feel like the
color is wearing me instead of the other
way
around her observation was
spoton neon colors Electric Blues neon
yellows fluorescent greens and shocking
pinks are designed to be high energy and
attention grab ing but they can often
overpower mature skin creating an effect
that is more harsh than flattering the
intensity of these colors doesn't just
bring brightness it competes with your
natural complexion drawing Focus away
from your face rather than enhancing it
instead of making you look refreshed and
radiant neon Shades can make your skin
appear tired washed out or overly
contrasted for women with Fair skin neon
Shades can create a stark artificial
contrast making fine lines and wrinkles
more noticeable for deeper skin tones
neon colors May Clash rather than
compliment stripping the complexion of
its natural warmth and for those with
silver or white hair the brightness of
neon can be too jarring making the
overall look appear unbalanced rather
than
harmonious but but loving color doesn't
mean giving it up it means choosing
tones that work in harmony with your
natural beauty not against it instead of
neon pink try a rich raspberry or a deep
Coral Shades that still bring warmth and
energy but without the harsh intensity
instead of neon green consider a jewel
toned Emerald or an earthy Olive which
create vibrancy in a more sophisticated
ated way trade in electric blue for a
deep Sapphire or a rich navy colors that
provide depth while still offering a
striking
effect Caroline took this advice to
heart she swapped her neon pink for a
warm muted Rose and her fluorescent
yellow scarf for a golden Amber the
result I still feel like me she said
smiling but now the color brings me to
life rather than drowning me
out there's nothing wrong with loving
bright colors but the key is finding
Shades that enhance rather than
overwhelm your presence your wisdom and
your confidence should be what people
notice first not just the intensity of
your clothing the right colors should
lift you up adding depth warmth in
Elegance not competing with your natural
beauty because after all confidence
isn't about wearing the loudest colors
in the room it's about wearing what
makes you
shine six faded beige the disappearing
act beige has long been considered a
safe classic Choice a neutral that pairs
well with anything a Timeless color that
feels effortless many women especially
those who have built their wardrobe on
understated Elegance gravitate toward
beige for its Simplicity but for women
over 65 baited beige can do the very
thing we least expect it can make us
disappear I remember my dear friend
Maria a 75-year-old retired nurse who
always dressed with quiet
sophistication her closet was filled
with beige Cardigans tan blouses and
taupe slacks I thought beige was
supposed to be elegant she confessed to
me one day but when I wear it now I feel
invisible she wasn't wrong standing
there in her washed out beige sweater
her complexion looked muted her natural
warmth
subdued the problem with faded beige is
that it Blends too closely with mature
skin rather than enhancing it when we
were younger our skin had a natural
vibrancy that allowed neutral tones to
feel fresh and modern but as we age we
lose some of that underlying warmth and
beige especially in its faded or dull
variations can flatten our features
making us look pale tired or even sickly
instead of serving as a foundation for
Elegance it can drain us of color making
our skin appear ashy or
lifeless for women with fair skin faded
beige often lacks the contrast needed to
define the face causing delicate
features to get lost for those with
deeper skin tones beige can create an
unnatural dullness removing the richness
and depth that makes their complexion
glow and for silver-haired women beige
has a way of blurring everything
together creating a monochrome effect
that lacks
Dimension but the beauty of neutrals is
that they don't have to be dull they
just need the right warmth and richness
to bring out your natural radiance
instead of faded beige choose warmer
neutrals like camel honey or warm taupe
which add depth in sophistication
without making you
disappear soft shades of Sandy Brown
Rich caramel or Golden Tan provide just
enough contrast to keep the complexion
looking Lively and
fresh Maria took this advice and
replaced her washed out beige sweaters
with a luxurious camel toned coat and a
soft sand colored blouse the difference
was
striking I feel like I have color again
she said catching her reflection in the
mirror it wasn't that she needed
something bold she just needed a color
that worked with her skin not against
it a wardrobe should never make you feel
like you are fading the right colors
should bring out your presence your
warmth your
vibrancy bathe age may have been your
Old Reliable but if it's making you
disappear it's time for a change choose
Shades that let you stand out that
highlight your beauty and that remind
you and everyone else that you are very
much here because at this stage in life
you deserve to be
seen seven cool toned purple the
unforgiving
contrast purple has always been
associated with royalty with wisdom and
sophistication it's a color that carries
a certain depth a quiet confidence many
women have embraced shades of lavender
and lilac over the years believing them
to be soft elegant and feminine but as
we age these cool toned purples can
begin to work against us rather than for
us I remember my friend Janice a
72-year-old former music teacher who had
always loved the color purple
her closet was filled with pale lilac
sweaters lavender scarves and icy Violet
blouses it used to make me feel Regal
she told me one afternoon adjusting the
collar of her favorite light purple
cardigan but lately when I wear it I
feel washed out when she stepped in
front of the mirror I could see why the
soft cool toned purple that once
brightened her face was now making her
complexion look tired even slightly sow
it wasn't that Janice had changed it was
that her natural skin tone had evolved
and the wrong shade of purple was no
longer serving
her the problem with cool toned purples
like lilac icy violet or pale Periwinkle
is that they can create a stark contrast
that is often unflattering on mature
skin these Shades lack the warmth needed
to counteract the natural changes that
come come with aging a slight loss of
pigmentation a softening of features a
shift in
undertones instead of complimenting the
skin cool purples can emphasize Shadows
making fine lines under eye circles and
uneven skin tone more
noticeable for fair skinned women
lavender can sometimes make the
complexion appear pale and lifeless
rather than bright and refreshed for
deeper skin tones cool toned purple can
create an ashy or dull effect failing to
enhance the richness of the skin and for
those with silver or white hair icy
purple can blend too closely creating a
monochrome effect that flattens rather
than enhances facial
features but purple doesn't have to be
off limits it simply has to be chosen
wisely instead of cool pale purples opt
for richer warmer Shades that provide
depth and sophistication without the
harshness deep plum warm Berry oberen
and even muted wine tones can add warmth
and vibrancy while still maintaining the
Elegance that purple represents these
Shades don't just sit on the skin they
work with it a lifting and brightening
rather than casting
dullness Janice hesitated when I
suggested swapping her lavender cardigan
for a deep plum sweater but when she saw
herself in the mirror she smiled I look
alive again she said running her hands
over the fabric the richness of the
color brought out the Natural Glow in
her cheeks making her look and feel like
herself just more
radiant color is one of the simplest
tools we have to enhance our presence
the wrong shade can drain us but the
right one can bring us back into Focus
purple is still a Regal powerful color
but only if it's the right tone choose
Shades that warm you that support you
that reflect the beauty of the life
you've lived you don't need to blend
into the background you deserve to stand
out final thoughts embrace the colors
that love you
back as we age the relationship we have
with color evolves just as we do the
shades that once made us feel vibrant
May Now cast Shadows where there should
be light
the colors that once Blended seamlessly
into our features may now make us feel
faded invisible or overwhelmed but aging
is not about retreating into dullness or
restriction it is about embracing what
works for us today about recognizing
that the right colors don't just reflect
who we were but who we have
become fashion is not about following
rigid rules it is about feeling good in
your own skin about choosing colors that
celebrate you rather than diminish you
the goal is not to dress like someone
else or to cling to what once was but to
wear what makes you feel radiant alive
and undeniably yourself a deep rich
burgundy instead of a washed out pastel
a warm Ivory instead of a harsh white a
soft caramel instead of a faded beige
these are not limitations they are
opportunities
simple subtle shifts that can illuminate
your face highlight your natural beauty
and remind the world that you are still
here still vibrant still full of
life there is no single formula for
dressing well after 65 there is only
this pay attention to how colors make
you feel stand in front of the mirror in
natural light notice how different
shades interact with your skin your hair
your presence choose colors that lift
you rather than dull you that highlight
your energy rather than pull it away
your beauty is not behind you it is in
every moment you choose to honor
yourself the right colors don't just
change the way you look they change the
way you see yourself and when you see
yourself in the best light so does
everyone
else these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and authentically now
I'd love to to hear from you take a
moment to reflect and share one thing
you've learned and plan to apply in your
own life let's support each other on
this journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and aderes to living
life on your own terms