I ditched life goals after witnessing
this shocking
reality as we age life seems to reveal
its truths with striking Clarity it
often takes a jarring moment a wake-up
call to make us pause and reflect on the
road ahead for me that moment came
unexpectedly during a quiet holiday in
Portugal it was a sunny afternoon the
kind where life feels am to effortless
but what I witnessed that day changed my
perspective on everything I thought I
knew about goals purpose and the time we
have left if you enjoyed this video give
it a thumbs up don't forget to subscribe
and turn on notifications so you never
miss an update one a shocking encounter
with
mortality there are moments in life so
raw so unexpected that they shake you to
your core these moments force you to
look at yourself your choices and the
fleeting nature of life
itself for me that moment arrived on
what seemed like an ordinary day a sunny
afternoon in Portugal where the skies
were clear and the world felt calm but
life as it so often does had a different
plan it started with a noise a sound I
couldn't quite place at first I
dismissed it imagining it was my
neighbor perhaps exercising or moving
something heavy he he was a man I barely
knew yet his presence was a constant
during my holiday visits to Portugal we
had exchanged polite nods shared a happy
New Year across our respective balconies
but never more than
that that afternoon as the noise turned
into cries I realized something was
wrong his wife's panicked voice cut
through the air followed by the hurried
arrival of paramedics I watched
helplessly from my balcony as they
surrounded him desperately trying to
revive him the scene was Sur real a life
slipping away on a beautiful day in a
beautiful
place and then
silence he was
gone I had seen death before I was by my
father's side when he passed this was
different this was sudden unplanned and
unrelenting one moment this man was
alive and the next he wasn't it struck
me deeply not because I knew him well
but because his death death felt so
arbitrary so close it was a stark
reminder that none of us knows how much
time we
have as I stood there Frozen by the
reality unfolding in front of me a
thought began to form that could have
been
me when I returned home that thought
refused to leave me it haunted me during
Quiet Moments and whispered to me when I
tried to sleep it wasn't just about his
death it was about what it represented
the fragility of Life the randomness of
it all the way we often live as though
we have all the time in the world when
in truth we
don't I began to question
everything how had I been spending my
time was I truly living or was I simply
existing the man who died that day had
been on vacation likely looking forward
to the same things I was relaxation
renewal perhaps even a sense of
Escape but his story ended abruptly and
it made me wonder was I writing my own
story with the care it
deserved that moment as painful and
unsettling as it was became a turning
point it forced me to confront my own
mortality and ask the hard questions I'd
been
avoiding what would I do with the time I
had
left how could I ensure that whenever my
end came I wouldn't look back with
regret the death of a near stranger
reminded me of a truth we all know but
rarely act upon life is precious and it
is fragile it is not something to be
endured or postponed it is something to
be embraced fully and without
hesitation this experience didn't just
change my perspective it changed my life
it pushed me to let go of the trivial
and focus on what truly mattered it
taught me that the greatest tragedy
isn't death itself but the failure to
live fully in the time we are
given that man's death was a wake-up
call not just for me but I hope for
anyone who hears this story it is a
reminder that life's fragility is not
something to fear but something to honor
it is a call to live intentionally to
cherish each moment and to never take
for granted the time we have two facing
the reality of
time time is a paradox when we are young
it feels infinite stretching endlessly
before us ripe with possibilities as we
age the illusion Fades and we begin to
see time for what it truly is fleeting
finite and utterly
unforgiving witnessing my neighbor's
death on that quiet afternoon in in
Portugal shattered whatever Illusions I
still clung to about my own time it
brought me face to face with a reality I
could no longer
ignore that could have been me those
words echoed in my mind as I flew back
home they weren't just a fleeting
thought they were a weight I carried
with me pressing on my chest with every
passing day I couldn't stop thinking
about how his life had ended so suddenly
so unexpectedly and what that meant for
me what if my time came to tomorrow next
month next year how much of my life had
I spent waiting for someday assuming
that my story still had chapters left to
right for years I had lived under the
comfortable assumption that I would make
it well into my 80s after all I had an
uncle who was 94 still sharp and full of
stories to tell why wouldn't I have the
same look but as I sat with the memory
of that man lifeless on the balcony next
door I realized how dangerous those
assumptions could be my father had died
at 74 if I were to follow in his
footsteps I would have barely more than
a decade
left the thought was sobering not
because it scared me but because it
forced me to re-evaluate everything time
is not
promised it doesn't owe us anything and
it doesn't care about our plans the only
certainty is the moment we are living
right now
I thought about the years I had already
lived the choices I had made the paths I
had taken and I wondered had I spent
them well the answer was complicated I
had built a successful business and sold
it I had explored new Ventures taken on
Consulting roles and tried to share my
knowledge in various ways but in truth I
had been drifting I had spent so much
time chasing external goals that I had
lost sight of what truly mattered
mattered to
me the death I witnessed wasn't just a
reminder of life's fragility it was a
call to action it was a nudge a forceful
undeniable nudge that told me it was
time to stop waiting waiting for the
perfect moment waiting for the right
opportunity waiting for the future the
future isn't guaranteed the only thing
we can count on is
now I realized that
that my relationship with time had to
change it wasn't enough to Simply
acknowledge its passing I had to honor
it that meant living with intention not
just letting the days blur together into
a haze of routine and obligation it
meant asking myself every single day
what will I do with the time I have left
this wasn't about Panic or fear it
wasn't about rushing to cram as much as
possible into whatever years I might
have left it was about Clarity it was
about stripping away the distractions
and focusing on what truly
mattered for me that meant letting go of
the idea that life is a series of
endless tomorrows it meant seeing each
day as a gift not a guarantee it meant
choosing to live not for the distant
future but for the here and
now I began to think about my life in
chapters if each chapter lasts about
seven years as I've always believed how
many chapters did I realistically have
left three if I made it to my 80s for if
I was
lucky but what if I only had one what if
I didn't even have
that these questions weren't meant to be
morbid they were meant to be liberating
by acknowledging the limits of time I
felt A Renewed sense of urgency not to
achieve more but to live more to live
with purpose to connect with the people
I loved and to make peace with the
things that truly
mattered time is a teacher but it is
also a thief it gives us the wisdom to
understand life's value but it takes
from us the days and years we thought we
had the lesson then is to make those
days count to see time not as an enemy
but as a companion a quiet Remer to
cherish each moment each breath each
Sunrise I don't know how much time I
have left and neither do you but what I
do know is this the time we have is
enough if we choose to make it so it is
enough to love deeply to live fully and
to leave behind a legacy of meaning and
connection it is enough to embrace the
life we have right now and to make the
most of the chapter still
written if witnessing my neighbor's
death taught me anything it's this time
waits for no one so let's not wait
either let's face the reality of time
not with fear but with gratitude for the
days we've been given and the chance we
still have to make them
count three Changing Life
Direction sometimes it takes a profound
jolt to realize that the Road you've
been traveling isn't leading where you
want to go for me that realization came
in the wake of witnessing my neighbor's
sudden death it wasn't just the tragedy
of his passing that struck me it was the
clarity it gave me about my own life I
had been moving yes but was I moving in
the right direction was I living a life
that truly reflected who I was and what
I cared about for most of my life I'd
been driven by ambition I built a
business from the ground up guided it to
suc uccess and eventually sold it by
many measures I had achieved what
society would call the dream but after
the dust settled I found myself
wandering through a series of Ventures
that felt Hollow I tried business
coaching Consulting advisory roles even
starting a CEO peer group each of these
Pursuits seemed logical given my
experience and knowledge but none of
them lit a fire in my
soul what I didn't realize at the time
was that I had been searching for
something deeper I thought I was looking
looking for the next professional
challenge but in truth I was looking for
meaning and it wasn't until I witnessed
that man's death that I finally
understood the urgency of my search when
you're faced with the Stark reality of
mortality your priorities have a way of
snapping into
Focus watching my neighbor's life end so
abruptly forced me to ask myself if my
time came tomorrow what would I
regret what would I wish I had done
different
the answers weren't about achieving more
or earning more they were about living
more authentically sharing more openly
in finding a way to make my experiences
count for something greater than myself
I began to think about the knowledge I
had accumulated over the years it wasn't
just about business strategies or
leadership principles it was about the
human Journey the ups and downs of
midlife and the unique challenges and
opportunities that come with aging these
were the lessons I wanted to share not
as an expert preaching from a pedestal
but as a fellow traveler navigating the
same
terrain the more I reflected the more I
realized that my life's Direction didn't
need to be about what I had achieved but
about what I could give and so I decided
to shift my focus entirely instead of
chasing goals that didn't resonate I
chose to start something something new a
YouTube channel where I could speak
directly to people like me men and women
in their 50s 60s and Beyond who were
searching for purpose and Clarity in the
second half of
life it wasn't an easy decision starting
something from scratch at this stage of
life felt daunting even risky but it
also felt right for the first time in
years I wasn't just following a career
path I was following my heart this shift
was n just about creating content it was
about creating connection I wanted to
share my story and my insights not to
impress or instruct but to inspire to
remind others that it's never too late
to change direction to ReDiscover what
matters and to live with intention the
truth is many of us drift through life
especially as we get older we fall into
routines we settle into habits and we
convince ourselves that our best days
are behind us but they're not
if anything the later years of life are
an opportunity a chance to rewrite the
script to embrace a new chapter and to
find fulfillment in ways we never
imagined changing direction doesn't mean
abandoning the past it means building on
it using the lessons we've learned to
guide us toward a future that feels
authentic and alive for me that meant
letting go of the need to prove myself
through work work and instead focusing
on creating something meaningful when I
look back now I see how every experience
I've had every success every failure
every moment of Doubt has led me to this
point witnessing my neighbor's death was
a turning point yes but it wasn't the
whole story it was the spark that
ignited a deeper understanding of what I
wanted my life to be
about changing direction is not always
easy especially when you've been
traveling the same road for so long but
it's worth it because at the end of the
day the most important question isn't
what have I accomplished it's how have I
lived if you're reading this and feeling
stuck I want you to know that it's never
too late whether you're 65 or 85 you
have the power to change direction you
have the power to create a life that
reflects your values your passions and
your truth all it takes is the courage
to take that first step and the
willingness to embrace the unknown for
me that first step when was starting a
YouTube channel for you it might be
something entirely different but
whatever it is know that the direction
you choose today can shape the Legacy
you leave
tomorrow and that my friend is a journey
worth
taking four Life as a series of
chapters life life when you really stop
to think about it is like a book each
chapter represents a phase of growth
learning and living a series of moments
that build upon one another to form The
Narrative of who we are but unlike the
books we read we don't know how many
chapters Our Own Story will have that
uncertainty is both a gift and a
challenge for years I believed that each
chapter of Life lasted about seven years
it was a framework that made sense to me
a way to measure time and Mark
transitions but as I approached my 63rd
year the weight of this concept became
heavier if life truly unfolds in
chapters then how many did I have left
three if I was lucky four if the stars
aligned but what if I only had
one these questions weren't just
theoretical they were deeply personal
and profoundly sobering thinking of life
and chapters force me to confront not
just the quantity of my time but the
quality
what would I fill these remaining
chapters with would I drift letting days
blend into weeks and years or would I
take the pen into my own hands and write
something
meaningful the idea of chapters also
brought me a sense of hope it reminded
me that no matter what had come before I
had the power to start fresh every
chapter after all is an opportunity a
blank page waiting to be written even if
the previous chapters were filled filled
with mistakes or missed opportunities
the next one could be
different but hope without action is
just a dream I realized that if I wanted
the next chapter of my life to be
meaningful I had to approach it with
intention it wasn't enough to let life
happen to me I had to actively shape it
that meant asking myself hard questions
about what truly mattered what I wanted
to leave behind and what I hope to carry
forward for me
the answers were
clear I wanted this chapter to be about
connection contribution and Clarity I
wanted to focus on the people I loved
the lessons I had learned and the Legacy
I hoped to leave above all I wanted to
live in a way that honored the time I
had left not with fear but with
gratitude and
purpose thinking of Life as a series of
chapters is a powerful perspective one
that I hope you'll consider for your own
Journey each chapter is a chance to
start a new to build on the past while
embracing the future the number of
chapters we have may be uncertain but
the meaning we bring to them is entirely
up to us five adopting anti-g
goals for most of my life I had been
driven by goals like many people I
believed that setting specific
measurable objectives was the key to
success and
fulfillment build a business grow my
wealth travel to new places these goals
gave me direction but As I Grew Older I
began to question whether they truly
brought me
happiness it wasn't until I stumbled
upon the concept of anti-g goals that my
perspective shifted unlike traditional
goals which focus on what you want to
achieve anti-g goals Center on what you
want to avoid it's a subtle but profound
difference one that changed the way I
approached the later years of my life
the idea is simple instead of asking
what do I want to accomplish you ask
what do I want to eliminate from my life
for me this question led to a series of
powerful
realizations I didn't want to spend my
days glued to a television screen
wasting hours on passive entertainment
so I made a commitment to explore the
world to visit new places and to immerse
myself in the beauty of nature
I didn't want to be surrounded by
clutter physical or emotional so I began
the process of decluttering my life
letting go of possessions I no longer
needed and relationships that no longer
served me I didn't want to lose touch
with the people I loved especially my
son so I prioritized time with him
inviting him on family trips and making
regular visits to his
home by focusing ing on what I didn't
want I created space for what truly
mattered this approach gave me Clarity
and peace allowing me to live with
greater intention and less
regret Annie goals aren't about settling
or giving up they're about redefining
success in a way that aligns with your
values and priorities they're about
letting go of the noise and distractions
that pull you away from what's truly
important if you're feeling overwhelmed
by the pressures of traditional goal
setting I encourage you to try this
approach ask
yourself what don't I want in my life
what can I let go of to make room for
Joy connection and
purpose you might be surprised by how
liberating it feels to focus on what
truly matters and how much easier it
becomes to live a life that reflects
your deepest values for me adopting
anti- goals was n just a strategy it was
a revelation it helped me see that
sometimes the best way to move forward
is to let go of what's holding you back
six the gift of
perspective perspective is one of life's
most profound gifts it has the power to
transform the way we see the world to
shift our Focus from what's trivial to
what truly
matters yet perspective often comes to
us in moments of great joy or deep
sorrow those rare defining experiences
that jolt us out of our routine and
force us to see life in a new light for
me that gift arrived unexpectedly
wrapped in the tragedy of witnessing my
neighbor's
death at first the shock of that moment
was overwhelming seeing a life end so
abruptly so unpredictably shook me to my
core but as the days passed and the
initial wave of emotions began to settle
I found myself reflecting on what that
experience had taught me it wasn't just
a reminder of life's fragility though
that lesson was undeniable it was also
an invitation a call to re-evaluate my
own life my choices and the Legacy I
hoped to leave
behind witnessing my neighbor's death
forced me to confront questions I had
long avoided what am I doing with the
time I have left am I living in
alignment with my values or am I simply
going through the motions waiting for a
tomorrow that isn't guaranteed these
were not easy questions to face but they
were necessary they became the lens
through which I began to see my life not
as a series of endless days but as a
finite and precious
Journey the perspective I gained wasn't
about fear it was about Clarity it
reminded me that life isn't measured by
the number of years we live but by the
depth of meaning we bring to those those
years it's not about how much we
accumulate achieve or accomplish but
about how fully we Embrace each moment
and How Deeply we connect with the
people we
love this newfound perspective also
helped me let go of the illusion of
control for much of my life I had clung
to the belief that I could plan and
prepare my way to a perfect future but
life is unpredictable and no amount of
planning can guarantee the outcomes we
desire my neighbor death was a stark
reminder that the only thing we truly
have is the present moment and in that
moment we have a choice to live with
intention and gratitude or to let the
days slip by
unnoticed as I reflected on this I
realized that perspective is not just a
gift it's a responsibility it calls us
to act to live in a way that honors the
lessons we've learned and the time we've
been given for me that meant simplifying
my life focusing on what truly mattered
and letting go of what didn't it meant
spending more time with my family
pursuing passions that brought me joy
and sharing my experiences with others
in the hope that they too might find
Clarity and
purpose perspective also brings with it
a sense of urgency not the Frantic rush
to do everything at once but the quiet
understanding that time is fin night it
encourages us to prioritize to say yes
to what aligns with our values and no to
what doesn't it teaches us to cherish
the ordinary moments the laughter of a
loved one the warmth of the sun on our
skin the Stillness of a quiet evening
because these are the moments that make
life rich and meaning
meaningful if there's one thing I've
learned it's that perspective is a gift
we can choose to accept at any time you
don't have to wait for a tragedy to
force you to see life differently you
can start today Right Where You Are by
asking yourself what truly matters to me
how can I live in a way that reflects
those
priorities these questions simple as
they are have the power to change
everything the gift of perspective has
transformed my life it has taught me to
see each day as an opportunity each
interaction as a chance to connect and
each decision as a step toward a more
meaning way wful
existence and for that I am deeply
grateful as you reflect on your own
journey I hope you'll Embrace this gift
as well let it guide you inspire you and
remind you of what's truly important
life is precious and though our time may
be limited the impact we can make is
boundless
all it takes is the willingness to see
things differently and the courage to
live
accordingly a profound closing
thought life in all its complexity is
both fleeting and infinite fleeting
because the time we are given is
impossibly brief a mere flicker in the
grand span of existence infinite because
within that fleeting time lies the
boundless potential for meaning
connection and
love the greatest lesson I've learned
and the one I hope to leave with you is
this our lives are not defined by their
length but by their depth we are the
authors of our own stories every choice
we make every relationship we nurture
and every moment we Embrace becomes a
sentence a paragraph a chapter in the
book of Our Lives yet so often we drift
through the pages waiting for us someday
that may never come unaware that the
most profound moments are already
unfolding in the
present the death I witnessed as
shocking and painful as it was taught me
an invaluable truth the time to live is
now not tomorrow not when the stars
align but now this moment however
imperfect is a gift it is a chance to
love more deeply to act with greater
purpose and to create a life that
reflects the truest parts of
ourselves if you take one thing away
from this reflection let it be this you
have the power to shape your story no
matter your age no matter your past the
pen is still in your
hands whether you have one chapter left
or many you can choose to fill it with
meaning with joy and with the courage to
live authentically as we stand at the
crossroads of what has been and what is
yet to come let us commit to living with
intention let us cherish the time we
have however much or little it may be
and let us remember that the greatest
Legacy we can leave is not in what we
accumulate or achieve but in the love we
give the lives we touch and the memories
we
create the clock is always ticking but
it is not our enemy it is a reminder a
gentle yet persist reminder to live to
truly
live so take a deep breath look around
and ask yourself what will I do with the
time I have left then with Clarity and
courage write the chapter you are always
meant to
write because this is your story make it
one worth
telling these lessons are meant to
inspire you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms