a 75-year-old self-made millionaire
shares her best life
advice as we age life presents itself
with a different lens for those in their
Golden Years there's a unique
opportunity to reflect on the journey so
far to find wisdom in the trials and to
embrace the joys of the present Barbara
corkran a self-made millionaire and
seasoned entrepreneur offers lessons not
just from her successes but from her
failures vulnerabilities and resilience
her insights shared with warmth and
honesty resonate deeply especially for
those aged 65 and Beyond who seek
meaning inspiration or simply a reminder
that life still holds new chapters to be
written here are Barbara's most poignant
lessons for living fully and gracefully
no matter your stage in life if you
enjoyed this video give it a thumbs up
don't forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update one failure is not the end it's
the
beginning failure is an inevitable part
of life it's uncomfortable often
heartbreaking and can leave us
questioning our worth for Barbara
corkran failure came in the form of
betrayal early in her career her
boyfriend who had also been her business
partner left her for her secretary
the personal and professional blow was
crushing she lost not just a partner but
also her sense of stability yet in
hindsight Barbara sees this moment as a
pivotal Turning Point a necessary
chapter in her journey to
success she could have allowed the pain
to Define her but instead she chose to
Define herself out of that heartbreak
she built her real estate Empire the cor
Corin Group which became a Cornerstone
of her identity and Legacy reflecting on
difficult time Barbara shared thank God
that all happened if it hadn't I
wouldn't have started my own business
and I wouldn't have had the life I have
today her experience teaches us a
profound truth about failure it is often
the seed of transformation when we're in
the midst of loss or disappointment it's
almost impossible to see the bigger
picture But as time passes we can often
trace the Arc of our growth back to
those moments of adversity failure
strips away Illusions and forces us to
confront our deepest fears but it also
opens doors to New Opportunities we
might never have
considered for older adults especially
those reflecting on Decades of Life
failure might feel like an unwelcome
visitor that has overstate its welcome
perhaps it's a failed relationship a
business venture that didn't pan out or
a dream that was left unfulfilled but as
Barbara's story reminds us fath failure
doesn't mean the end it's often the
beginning of something better something
we couldn't have envisioned while caught
in the
storm think back to the moments when you
stumbled or felt like giving up what
came after perhaps it was resilience you
didn't know you had or an unexpected
path that led to a more meaning meanful
chapter the beauty of life is that it
constantly invites us to start over to
redefine what success means and to use
every experience good or bad as fuel for
growth Barbara's approach to failure is
one of
gratitude rather than lingering in
bitterness or regret she flips The
Narrative she doesn't ask why did this
happen to me instead she asks what did
this teach me this shift in perspective
is powerful it transforms failure from a
dead end into a stepping stone giving us
the courage to rise again even when it
feels
impossible as we age this perspective
becomes even more valuable the years
behind us are rich with lessons and the
wisdom we've gained from failures can
guide us toward a more fulfilling
present there is no expiration date on
growth whether you're 25 65 or 85 the
ability to learn from life's challenges
and find mind purpose in them is
timeless Barbara's story is a reminder
that failure while painful is also a
gift it forces us to reassess to Pivot
and to find strength we didn't know we
had most importantly it reminds us that
even in our darkest moments the story
isn't over there's always a new chapter
waiting to be written and the best part
is that we hold the pen
two authenticity wins every
time in a world often obsessed with
appearances and social approval it can
be tempting to mold ourselves to fit in
to meet expectations or to avoid
judgment Barbara corkran knows this
feeling all too well early in her career
she believed that success required a
polished image perfect hair perfect
clothes perfect demeanor she tried to
embody the ideal of professionalism even
when it didn't feel natural over time
the weight of maintaining that facade
became
unbearable one day she decided to let go
she stopped striving for Perfection and
began showing up as her true self
surprisingly that's when her career
truly took off Barbara learned that
people don't connect with perfection
they connect with honesty people like
you for who you really are not who you
pretend to be she
reflects this lesson is profound
especially for those entering the later
stages of life after Decades of living
the urge to meet societal expectations
can be exhausting the good news you
don't have to anymore there is freedom
in authenticity in embracing your quirks
your imperfections and your
individuality when you allow yourself to
be seen as you truly are you invite
deeper more meaningful connections into
your
life authenticity isn't just about being
honest with others it's about being
honest with yourself ask yourself what
parts of me have I been hiding what do I
truly value what brings me joy these are
the questions that can help you shed the
unnecessary layers and step into a
version of yourself that feels whole and
genuine Barbara's story reminds us that
it's never too late to stop pretending
and start living authentically whether
you're reconnecting with an old passion
rekindling relationships or simply
choosing to speak your truth
authenticity has the power to transform
your life it's not about striving for
approval it's about finding peace in who
you
are three money brings Comfort but it's
not the key to
happiness for much of her life Barbara
corkran has been surrounded by wealth
her own and others yet when reflecting
on the role of money her perspective is
refreshingly grounded while she
acknowledges that money can provide
freedom and convenience she's quick to
point out its
limitations money doesn't make you happy
it just makes life easier she
says this Insight is particularly
meaningful for older adults after
Decades of working saving and striving
for Financial Security it's natural to
reflect on the role money has played in
your life barbar's wisdom offers a
gentle reminder money is a tool not the
destination it can open doors but it
cannot fill the emotional and spiritual
spaces within
us for Barbara the moments of deepest
fulfillment weren't tied to paychecks or
Bank balances instead they came from
acts of generosity like buying her
parents their first new car that simple
act born out of love and gratitude ude
gave her a sense of joy and
accomplishment far greater than any
business deal ever
could giving is what makes life Rich she
says this doesn't mean money doesn't
matter it does it provides stability
opportunities and peace of mind but
Barbara's story reminds us that it's not
the ultimate measure of a life
well-lived what truly matters is how we
use the resources we have
create meaningful experiences Foster
relationships and contribute to the
well-being of
others as you reflect on your own
relationship with money consider this
what has brought you the most Joy was it
a purchase or an experience a possession
or a connection chances are it's the
moments of giving sharing or creating
that stand out most
vividly Barbara's perspective in
encourages us to shift our Focus instead
of asking how much do I have she
suggests asking how can I use what I
have to make my life and the lives of
others better in doing so you might find
that the wealth you've been seeking
isn't in dollars and cents but in the
love and purpose you cultivate along the
way four the power of hard
choices life is a series of decisions
and the hardest choices often Define us
Barbara corran's Journey illustrates
this truth vividly in her 20s while her
friends enjoyed Carefree evenings and
weekends she poured herself into her
fledgling business she worked 18-hour
days sacrificing the social moments and
Personal Pleasures that seemed so
essential to others at the time it
wasn't easy she wondered if she was
missing out but by her 30s the
sacrifices she made began to bear fruit
and she she realized she had built
something
extraordinary easy choices make life
hard hard choices make life easy she
reflects this wisdom carries deep
resonance especially for those entering
their later years by now you've likely
made countless decisions that shaped
your life some easy others
excruciatingly difficult the hard
choices often required perseverance
courage and self-discipline but they
also paved the way for the most
meaningful Rewards
hard choices aren't limited to careers
or Big Life Changes they can be as
personal as prioritizing Health choosing
forgiveness or letting go of
relationships that no longer serve you
these decisions may feel daunting but
they carry the potential to transform
your quality of
life for those in their Golden Years
hard choices might look different but
remain just as significant perhaps it's
deciding to take up a new hobby despite
initial discomfort making time for
physical activity or reaching out to
mend a fractured relationship these
choices require effort but they hold the
promise of a richer Fuller
life Barbara's story reminds us that
avoiding hard choices doesn't Shield us
from difficulty it often creates it
choosing to stay in a comfort zone even
when it's unfulfilling can lead to
regret on the other hand embracing hard
choices though challenging often leads
to growth and
Clarity
five giving is the key to
Joy Barbara corkran firmly believes in
the transformative power of giving to
her generosity is not just an act but a
philosophy of life one of her proudest
moments was buying her parents their
first new car a symbol of her gratitude
for the sacrifices they made to raise 10
children she recalls how that single
gesture brought her immense satisfaction
far surpassing any material reward she
had ever received giving is a love
letter it's a way to say thank you to
share your heart she
says this lesson is particularly
profound as we age by 65 or Beyond many
people begin to focus Less on
accumulating and more on sharing whether
it's their time wisdom or resources
giving isn't just about helping others
it's about reading discovering purpose
and joy within yourself when you give
you shift your focus outward Breaking
Free from self-centered worries and
anxieties Barbara also points out that
giving doesn't have to involve money
sometimes the greatest gifts are
intangible a kind word a listening ear
or the willingness to share your
experience with someone who needs
guidance acts of generosity no matter
how small create ripples of kindness
that can brighten not just someone
else's day but your own own as
well as you reflect on your life
consider the ways in which you can give
whether it's mentoring younger
Generations volunteering for a cause
close to your heart or simply being
present for your loved ones giving
Fosters connection and connection is one
of the deepest sources of fulfillment in
life Barbara's belief in giving as a
path to Joy isn't just a cliche it's a
truth she's lived she reminds Rems us
that the act of giving whether big or
small enriches The Giver as much as the
receiver it's a way of saying I see you
and I
care and in that exchange we find not
just happiness but a deeper sense of
meaning and
belonging six aging gracefully means
adapting aging is a universal Journey
yet it's also deeply personal Barbara
corkran now in her 70s doesn't shy away
from from the reality of getting older
she openly admits aging sucks don't let
anyone tell you differently however she
balances this honesty with a spirit of
adaptability and determination whether
it's skiing down a mountain or keeping
up with her young staff Barbara finds
joy in embracing what she can still do
rather than mourning what she
can't the process of Aging often brings
physical limitations that can feel
frustrating or even disheartening tasks
that were once effortless may now
require more thought planning or support
for someone like Barbara who describes
herself as a go-getter this shift has
been particularly challenging yet she's
learned to adapt by weighing her options
carefully and making intentional choices
about what's worth
pursuing her wisdom speaks to the
essence of aging gracefully accepting
change without surrendering to it it's
about recognizing limitations without
letting them Define you Barbara story
encourages us to approach aging not with
fear but with curiosity and creativity
what New Joys can you discover what
small victories can you
celebrate adaptation also means
surrounding yourself with Vitality
people activities and environments that
Inspire energy rather than drain it
Barbara credits much of her youthful
Outlook to her interactions with younger
colleagues and family members whose
enthusiasm and optimism keep her engaged
and alert for older adults this is a
reminder that the company you keep has a
profound impact on how you feel about
life seek out relationships and
activities that uplift you challenge you
and make you feel
alive aging is inevitable but how you
age is a choice Barbara's approach
reminds us that while the physical
aspects of Aging may slow us us down
they don't have to stop us from living
fully adapt Embrace and keep moving
forward this is the heart of Aging with
Grace seven let go of
regrets regret is a heavy burden yet so
many of us carry it quietly through life
for Barbara corkran regret is not a
weight she's willing to Bear thinking
about regrets is a waste of time she
asserts to her the past is unchangeable
and dwelling on it only serves to keep
us stuck in place her perspective is a
liberating one especially for older
adults who may find themselves
reflecting on paths not taken or
mistakes made long
ago the truth about regret is that it
often feeds on our tendency to replay
the past with what ifs we imagine
alternate scenarios and outcomes
convincing ourselves that things could
have been better but as Barbara points
out regret doesn't solve anything it
only deepens the pain of what's already
behind us instead of allowing regret to
take root she suggests focusing on the
lessons learned and using those insights
to shape the present and
future letting go of regret also means
releasing the need to blame whether it's
yourself others or circumstances beyond
your control Barbara warns that holding
on to blame can turn you into a victim
robbing you of your agency and happiness
when you dwell on regret you're apt to
become a a victim she says and victims
are never
happy this Insight is particularly
powerful because it shifts The Narrative
by taking responsibility for how you
respond to your past you reclaim your
power to shape your life going
forward for those in their later years
letting go of regret is an act of
self-compassion it's an acknowledgement
that life is imperfect and that we all
do the best we can with the knowledge
and resources we have at the time regret
doesn't need to Define your story
instead it can serve as a reminder of
how far you've come and how much you've
grown Barbara's approach to regret is a
call to action stop Looking Backward and
start looking forward each day is an
opportunity to make choices that align
with your values and aspirations the
past may have shaped you but it doesn't
have to limit you let go forgive and
move on your best days may still be
ahead e eight redefine love and
relationships love evolves over time it
matures shifts and deepens in ways that
can surprise us Barbara corkran speaks
candidly about her perspective on Love
and Marriage offering a view that feels
refreshingly honest and grounded she
acknowledges that marriage isn't always
a whirlwind of romance instead it's a
partnership rooted in loyalty and mutual
support marriage gets boring she admits
but quickly adds it's about having
someone in your corner someone you can
rely
on this reflection is particularly
meaningful for those in their later
years as the fiery passion of youth
gives way to the steadiness of
companionship it's easy to overlook the
quiet beauty of a long-term relationship
Barbara reminds us that true love isn't
about constant excitement it's about
showing up day after day through the
highs and lows it's about being there
for each other not because it's always
thrilling but because it's meaning
meaningful relationships whether with a
spouse family or close friends are the
foundation of a fulfilling life but they
require effort patience and a
willingness to weather the mundane as
well as the magical Barbara's Insight
invites us to redefine love not as a
feeling that comes and goes but as a
commitment to care loyalty and
understanding it's the quiet unspoken
gestures the shared meals the words of
encouragement the presence in difficult
moments that build a legacy of
love as we age these relationships take
on even greater significance the people
who stand by you who know your history
and accept your flaws are Treasures
worth cherishing whether it's a spouse a
lifelong friend or even newer
connections nurturing these bonds can
bring profound joy and stability
Barbara's view reminds us that love is
less about perfection and more about
persistence the simple Act of choosing
each other again and again over
time
nine life is about
gratitude for Barbara corkran one of the
most defining moments of her life was
buying her parents their first new car
it wasn't just just a gift it was a
symbol of love respect and gratitude for
the sacrifices they had made to support
their large family reflecting on that
moment she says it was an extension of
Love A thank you a love
letter gratitude is one of the most
powerful forces in life it shifts our
Focus from what we lack to what we have
Opening Our Hearts to Joy and connection
for older adults this practice becomes
even more profound with Decades of life
behind you there's so much to be
grateful for relationships built
challenges overcome memories created yet
it's easy to let gratitude slip away in
the hustle of daily life or the weight
of unresolved
regrets Barbara's story encourages us to
pause and reflect on the blessings we
often take for granted gratitude doesn't
have to be grand it can be as simple as
appreciating a beautiful sunrise the
laughter of a grandchild or the kindness
of a neighbor these small moments when
noticed and cherished weave a fabric of
contentment that enriches our
lives gratitude also has a way of
transforming how we view ourselves and
others when you express thanks whether
through words actions or gestures you
strengthen your connections and deepen
your
relationships Barbara's experience of
giving to her parents wasn't just about
the act itself it was about The Joy it
brought to both giver and receiver it
was a reminder that gratitude when
shared
multiplies in the later stages of Life
practicing gratitude can be a source of
healing and hope it helps us focus on
the good even in the face of challenges
and reminds us of the resilience and
love that have carried us this
far Barbara's advice is clear take time
to notice to say thank thank you and to
let gratitude guide your days in doing
so you'll find that life's greatest
riches aren't material they're found in
the moments and relationships that make
your heart
full 10 it's never too
late one of the most empowering lessons
Barbara corkran offers is the reminder
that it's never too late to start again
to try something new or to save her life
in a way you've never done before
reflecting on her own Journey Barbara
emphasizes the value of slowing down and
appreciating the present a lesson she
learned later in
life if I could go back to my
25-year-old self I'd tell her to chill
out stop rushing take a moment to smell
the roses she
says this perspective resonates deeply
for those in their Golden Years often
people believe that opportunities
diminish with age that certain dreams or
goals are no longer Within Reach but
barbera's wisdom challenges this
narrative life at any age is full of
potential whether it's picking up a new
hobby revisiting a forgotten passion or
simply allowing yourself the time to
enjoy the world around you there's
always space for Renewal and
growth Barbara's reflection is a call to
embrace the here and now to shift Focus
from what's behind to what's ahead as
she puts it there's so much I didn't
appreciate when I was younger because I
was too busy chasing success it wasn't
until later that I learned to stop and
really see what was in front of
me this idea is particularly freeing for
older adults the pressures of career
building raising children or meeting
societal expectations often fade leaving
room for deeper more personal Pursuits
whether it's traveling to a place you've
always dreamed of taking a class to
learn something new or reconnecting with
old friends these years are a gift a
chance to live on your
terms Barbara's advice also serves as a
reminder to be kind to yourself many
people carry the weight of missed
opportunities or past mistakes but
dwelling on what could have been robs
you of the beauty of what is each day is
an opportunity to make different choices
to savor life's Simple Pleasures and to
step boldly into new experiences
if there's one truth that Barbara
embodies it's that life is an ongoing
Journey there's no expiration date on
Joy purpose or growth the world still
holds wonders waiting to be discovered
and as long as you're willing to embrace
them the possibilities are endless
Barbara's wisdom invites you to see
every moment as a fresh start a chance
to create a life that feels Rich
meaningful and uniquely yours after all
as she would say the best chapters of
your story are the ones you haven't
written yet embracing the journey
ahead Barbara corran's life and wisdom
remind us of an essential truth life is
a journey defined not by Perfection but
by resilience connection and the
willingness to embrace
change as we grow older it's easy to
feel that the best chapters are behind
us but our story challenges that notion
the experiences wisdom and strength
gained over decades are not just
remnants of the past they are tools for
building a future that is just as
meaningful if not more
so at its core Barber's advice
encourages us to live with intention
whether it's finding joy in the small
moments nurturing relationships letting
go of regret or stepping into New
Opportunities every choice we make has
the power to enrich our lives aging
isn't about slowing down
it's about
recalibrating shifting Focus from what
we can no longer do to all the
possibilities that still lie
ahead perhaps the most profound takeaway
from Barbara's journey is this life
doesn't come with a Finish Line as long
as we're here there's room for growth
joy and Discovery it's never too late to
start again to love more deeply to give
more generously or to find beauty in the
ordinary
the golden years are not a time to fade
into the background they are a time to
shine with the wisdom courage and
authenticity that only come with age
Barbara's story reminds us that no
matter how many twists and turns life
takes we hold the pen in our own hands
and with each new day we are given a
blank page to write a story that is
uniquely wonderfully our
own so
As you move forward embrace the journey
with Grace and gratitude cherish the
moments connect deeply with the people
you love and always remember that the
best is yet to come after all the
richness of life isn't measured in years
it's measured in the love we give the
lessons we learn and the joy we create
along the
way these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and authentically
now I'd love to hear from you take a
moment to reflect and share one thing
you've learned and plan to apply in your
own life let's support each other on
this journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms