the nine words you should stop saying in
old age will shock
you as we age our words hold immense
power they shape how others see us and
most importantly how we see ourselves
often we fall into patterns of speaking
that unintentionally limit our potential
happiness and confidence here I'll share
nine words you should consider removing
from your vocabulary along with
empowering Alternatives these changes
can profoundly impact your mindset
relationships in overall sense of
well-being let's dive in if you enjoyed
this video give it a thumbs up don't
forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update one
just just is a word that often slips
into conversations unnoticed yet it
quietly diminishes the strength of what
we are trying to express it sneaks in
as if to soften the blow of our words to
make us sound less demanding or less
assertive but what it really does is
undermine the wisdom and importance of
what we have to
say think about how often we use this
word I just wanted to check in or I'm
just saying or even I just think it
might be a good
idea when we add just to our sentences
we turn what could be a strong clear
state statement into something tentative
and hesitant it's as if we're
apologizing for having an opinion or for
taking up
space for women and men who have reached
the golden years this word carries even
more weight by the time you're 65 70 or
Beyond you have a lifetime of experience
behind you you've raised families built
careers faced hardships and celebrated
triumphs your voice deserves to be heard
with Clarity and confidence every
thought you share and every piece of
advice you give is backed by Decades of
learning wisdom and insight why then
should it be softened by a word like
just dropping just from your vocabulary
might seem like a small change but it's
a profound one it's about reclaiming The
Authority that comes with your years of
experience imagine the difference
between saying I just wanted to share an
idea and I wanted to share an idea the
second version carries wait it invites
others to listen it shows that you value
your own voice enough to speak without
unnecessary
qualifiers this change isn't just about
how others perceive you it's about how
you perceive yourself the words we use
shape our self-image when you stop using
just you begin to see yourself as
someone who is decisive and confident
over time this subtle shift will help
you feel more empowered in conversations
whether whether you're talking to family
friends or even
strangers of course making this change
requires
awareness just has become so ingrained
in our everyday language that it slips
out without us noticing the next time
you're about to use it pause for a
moment and ask yourself does this word
add value to what I'm saying if the
answer is no Let It Go speak your
thoughts as they are without apology or
hesitation
the impact of this small adjustment can
be surprising you might find that people
start listening to you more attentively
you may notice that your advice carries
more weight that your suggestions are
taken more seriously most importantly
you'll start to feel the difference
within yourself each time you resist the
urge to use just you're making a
statement not just to others but to
yourself that your voice matters
in the later years of life we have the
opportunity to strip away the
unnecessary and focus on what truly
matters letting go of words like just is
a small but powerful step toward living
with more confidence authenticity and
joy your wisdom your presence and your
voice are gifts to those around you
speak with the certainty that you've
earned and watch as the world
responds two
old the word old old may seem like an
innocent descriptor a factual
acknowledgment of the years we've lived
but often when we call ourselves old it
carries a weight far heavier than the
word itself it becomes a label a
boundary and sometimes even a
justification for holding back we say
I'm too old for that or you know how it
is when you're old as though our age has
the final say in what we can or cannot
do but let me ask you this is age truly
the limit or is it just the way we've
been taught to view ourselves after a
certain point every time we use old in a
way that restricts or diminishes us we
inadvertently reinforce the notion that
aging is a
decline in truth aging is not a burden
it's a
privilege think about the alternative
not everyone gets the gift of growing
older of witnessing life unfold through
Decades of change growth and
Discovery when you call yourself old you
reduce your identity to a single
Dimension but you are so much more than
your age you are a tapestry of stories
achievements and Lessons Learned you've
lived through revolutions technological
cultural personal and come out wiser on
the other side wrinkles and silver hair
are not marks of limitation they are
Badges of Honor they show that you've
lived loved and
endured the words we use to describe
ourselves matter deeply instead of
saying I'm too old try reframing your
thoughts say I've experienced enough to
approach this differently instead of
lamenting I can't because I'm old shift
to I'm adapting to new ways of doing
things these subtle changes in language
remind you and those around you that
your worth is not bound to your
age think of your age as a foundation
not a barrier it's what gives you the
stability and perspective to try new
things to connect with people and to
find joy in ways you couldn't have
imagined when you were younger celebrate
your years instead of using them as a
reason to hold back life is not a
straight line it's a series of cycles
each one offering new opportunities to
grow to explore and to redefine what's
possible by letting go of old as a
limitation you free yourself to embrace
all the richness and possibility that
life still holds remember you are not
old you are Timeless a unique blend of
past experiences and future potential
speak of yourself with the respect and
admiration you deserve the world will
take its cues from you three
sorry there is strength in a genuine
apology owning up to a mistake or
offering heartfelt regret is a mark of
Integrity but for many of us the word
sorry has become more than an expression
of Contrition it's a reflex a habit and
sometimes an overused crutch how often
do you find yourself saying sorry to
bother you or I'm sorry but when there's
nothing to apologize for it's as if
we're apologizing for taking up space
for having opinions or for simply
existing this habit often develops over
decades especially for women who were
raised to prioritize the comfort of
others above their own needs by the time
we reach our later years it feels second
nature but here's the hard truth when
you say sorry unnecessarily you chip
away at your own confidence you send a
message to yourself and to those around
you that your needs ideas or presence
are less important over time this can
create an invisible but significant
barrier between you and your own
self-worth so how do we break free from
this pattern it starts with awareness
the next time you're about to say sorry
pause and ask yourself am I truly at
fault here is an apology necessary or am
I apologizing out of habit in many cases
is you'll find that gratitude or
assertiveness is a better alternative
for example instead of saying sorry I'm
late you can say thank you for waiting
instead of sorry to interrupt say excuse
me I'd like to add
something these small shifts in language
do more than just change the tone of a
conversation they help you reclaim your
place in the world as someone who
deserves to be heard and seen without
apology they remind you that your time
your thoughts and your contributions are
valuable but what about those moments
when you truly don't know something or
need assistance instead of apologizing
try framing it as an opportunity for
growth for instance instead of saying
I'm sorry I don't know how to use this
technology say that's interesting I'd
like to learn how to use
this by doing so you position yourself
not as someone who is lacking but as
someone who is curious and open to
learning breaking the sorry habit takes
time and practice but it's worth the
effort each time you replace an
unnecessary apology with gratitude
confidence or curiosity you're
reinforcing your own value and as you do
this you're also setting an example for
others whether it's younger Generations
looking to you for guidance or peers who
may be struggling with the same habit
remember your presence in this world is
not something to apologize for you've
earned your place at the table through
years of resilience growth and
contribution speak and act as though you
believe this because it's the truth your
words have the power to shape not only
how others see you but how you see
yourself use them wisely and never
forget you are worthy without
apology four can't
can't is one of the most limiting words
we use often without realizing its power
to confine us it's a door we close
before we even try to see what's on the
other side I can't learn new
technology I can't travel
anymore I can't do that at my
age each time you say can't yeah you
impose a boundary not only on your
actions but also on your
mindset but is can't really the truth or
or is it a habit born out of fear doubt
or a lack of
confidence in many cases can't is less
about physical impossibility and more
about an unwillingness to try and let's
face it trying something new can feel
daunting especially later in life the
world changes quickly and it's easy to
feel overwhelmed by things that seem
unfamiliar or complex but here's the
reality every skill you have today
whether it's D driving a car cooking a
meal or even navigating relationships
was once something you couldn't do over
time you learned adapted and thrived why
should that process stop
now replacing can't with possibility
opens up a world of opportunities
instead of saying I can't figure out
this new technology try this is new to
me but I'm willing to learn instead of
ye I can't travel anymore more say m
traveling looks different for me now but
I can explore nearby
places these small changes in language
shift your perspective from limitation
to curiosity from defeat to
determination it's not about pretending
that aging doesn't bring challenges of
course there are physical realities to
consider and some things may require
adjustments or extra support but even
within those limitations there's room
for growth for for example if
traditional exercise feels difficult
explore gentle activities like yoga or
walking if technology feels overwhelming
seek out classes or ask a friend to
guide you when you approach challenges
with a mindset of possibility you not
only expand what you're capable of but
also ReDiscover your resilience and
creativity ultimately the word can
is only as powerful as you allow it to
be by choosing instead to say I'll try
or I'll figure it out you take back
control of your narrative you remind
yourself and those around you that you
are still capable of learning growing
and experiencing Joy life doesn't stop
at any particular age as long as you're
breathing there's room to explore to
adapt and to thrive
five
should should is a word that weighs
heavily on our hearts it carries the
weight of expectations both from others
and from ourselves I should exercise
more I should visit my family more often
I should have saved more money when I
was
younger every time we use should we
place a burden on ourselves one that
often feels overwhelming and
unattainable worse we tie our sense of
Worth to whether or not we've met these
expectations leaving little room for
Compassion or understanding toward
ourselves but here's the truth should
doesn't serve you it keeps you stuck in
a cycle of guilt and self-criticism
always feeling like you're falling short
this is particularly harmful as we age
because it prevents us from appreciating
the life we've lived and the person
we've become regrets about the past or
pressure to meet external expectations
can rob you of the peace and joy you
deserve so how do we free ourselves from
the trap of
should the answer lies in
reframing instead of saying I should
exercise more say I want to move my body
because it makes me feel good instead of
I should visit my children more often
say I choose to visit my children
because I value our time together this
subtle shift in language transforms an
obligation into a choice making it feel
empowering rather than
burdensome it's also important to let go
of the should haves that haunt us from
the past I should have worked harder I
should have made better
decisions these thoughts don't change
what's already happened they only serve
to keep us Tethered to regret instead
focus on what you can do
today ask yourself what small step can I
take Now to create the life I want the
past is unchangeable but the present is
full of
opportunity replacing should with
intentional and compassionate language
allows you to take ownership of your
life it helps you focus on what truly
matters to you rather than living
according to the expectations of others
and it invites you to see yourself not
not as someone who is constantly falling
short but as someone who is making
thoughtful choices in alignment with
your values and
desires life after 65 is a time to shed
unnecessary burdens not add to them by
letting go of should you make space for
Freedom joy and self-acceptance you
allow yourself to live not out of
obligation but out of love for yourself
for others and for the life you're still
creating six
ugly ugly is one of the harshest words
we can use yet we often direct it at
ourselves without a second thought have
you ever stood in front of a mirror and
thought my wrinkles make me look ugly or
I hate how my body looks
now these fleeting moments of
self-criticism might seem insignificant
but over time they build a narrative one
that tells you your worth is tied to how
you
look but let's pause and reflect what
does it really mean to age every wrinkle
every gray hair and every scar is a
testament to the life you've lived those
laugh lines around your mouth are the
imprints of Joy shared with loved ones
the silver in your hair is a crown of
wisdom earned through years of growth
struggle and Triumph even the changes in
your body reflect the resilience of a
vessel that has carried you through
Decades of
Life calling yourself ugly denies all of
that it reduces a lifetime of stories
and experiences into a single
superficial judgment but beauty isn't
just about smooth skin or a youthful
figure beauty is in the kindness you
show others the wisdom you share and the
strength you've develop through life's
challenges it's in the way your eyes
light up when you see someone you love
or in the comfort your presence brings
to those around
you to shift your mindset start by
replacing ugly with words that honor
your
authenticity instead of focusing on what
you perceive as flaws find something to
celebrate when you look in the mirror
don't say I hate my body instead say I'm
grateful for my body which has carried
me through so much instead of these
wrinkles make me look ugly say the these
wrinkles tell the story of a life filled
with love laughter and
resilience this practice isn't about
denying the changes that come with aging
it's about embracing them with Grace and
compassion speak to yourself as you
would to a dear friend with words of
encouragement and love over time you'll
find that the way you see yourself
begins to shift you'll notice Beauty not
just in your reflection but in the way
you live connect and
Thrive remember beauty is not defined by
age it's defined by how fully and
authentically you show up in the world
you are not ugly you are a masterpiece
in progress radiating the wisdom and
love you've accumulated over a
lifetime seven
lonely loneliness is a word that carries
a heavy emotional weight and saying I
feel lonely often feels like admitting
defeat it's a raw vulnerable
acknowledgment of a deep need for
connection one that many people
especially in later years struggle to
express but while loneliness is a real
and valid feeling using the word too
often can reinforce isolation and
despair making it harder to see the
pathways back to connection and
joy feeling lonely doesn't mean you're
alone you might be surrounded by people
yet still feel
disconnected loneliness often stems not
from the absence of others but from a
perceived lack of understanding
connection or
belonging when we repeatedly say I'm
lonely we inadvertently focus on the
emptiness rather than the possibilities
for filling
it the good news is that loneliness
while painful is not a permanent State
it's a signal a reminder that as social
beings
we thrive on connection to move Beyond
loneliness it's essential to reframe how
we think and talk about it instead of
labeling yourself as lonely try saying
I'm seeking connection or I'm exploring
ways to engage with others these shifts
in language help redirect your focus
from what's missing to what's
possible building connections doesn't
have to mean grand gestures or big
changes
it can start with small meaningful steps
joining a local group or Club
volunteering for a cause you care about
or even reaching out to an old friend
you haven't spoken to in years you might
also find joy in connecting with younger
Generations mentoring someone sharing
your stories or simply listening to
their
experiences younger people often crave
the wisdom and guidance that comes from
someone who has lived through so
much it's also worth remembering that
connection begins with
self-compassion sometimes we close
ourselves off because we fear rejection
or feel Unworthy of others attention but
you are not only deserving of connection
you are a vital part of the world around
you your experiences your kindness and
your presence matter by opening yourself
to to new relationships and experiences
you invite the world to see the value
you
bring loneliness doesn't Define you it's
a feeling not a permanent state of being
with intention and effort you can
transform moments of isolation into
opportunities for connection remember
the human heart is resilient and there's
always room for new connections laughter
and love no matter your age your
presence is a gift and there are people
out there who will be enriched simply by
knowing you open the door to possibility
and you may be surprised by the joy that
follows eight
two the word two might seem small and
harmless but it carries the weight of
limitation I'm too old for that I'm too
tired to try it's too late for me to
change these phrases slip into our
vocabulary so easily subtly creating
barriers that hold us back from new
experiences and opportunities when we
say too we're telling ourselves and the
world that we've already reached the
edge of what's possible but is that
really
true think about how often too has been
a reason for hesitation rather than a
reality often it's not that we're truly
too old too tired or too late it's that
we've internalized the belief that
certain things are no longer available
to us because of our age or state age in
life this belief isn't just limiting
it's untrue life doesn't come with a
timer that stops ticking after a certain
age as long as you're here there's still
time to grow to learn to explore and to
enjoy imagine how different life would
feel if you replaced two with curiosity
and possibility instead of saying I'm
too old to try something new say this is
something I haven't done yet but I'd
like to explore it instead of it's too
late to change
try it's never too late to make a
difference in my own
life these shifts in language open doors
instead of closing them they remind you
that every day is an opportunity to
expand your world not shrink
it this doesn't mean you have to ignore
the realities of Aging it's true that
energy levels and physical capabilities
may change
and some activities might require
adaptation but adaptation is not the
same as limitation if traditional travel
feels exhausting explore local
destinations if high impact exercises
Out Of Reach find joy in gentler
activities like yoga or swimming the key
is to approach life with a mindset of
possibility rather than
defeat by letting go of two you reclaim
your power to Define what's possible for
yourself you remind yourself that age is
not a wall but a doorway to a new
chapter no matter your circumstances
there is always something new to
discover something meaningful to create
and something joyful to experience life
isn't about staying within the lines
it's about coloring outside of them in
your own unique way nine I'm fine
I'm fine is a phrase that feels safe
it's what we say when someone asks how
we're doing even when we're struggling
it's what we say when we don't want to
burden others with our feelings or when
we feel unsure about opening up but
let's be honest how often is I'm fine
really true and what do we lose when we
use it as a default
response when you say I'm fine you close
the door to connection you deny others
the chance to truly see and support you
you also deny yourself the opportunity
to express what's in your heart whether
it's Joy gratitude or the weight of a
difficult day over time I'm fine becomes
a habit that isolates you from the
people who care about you and want to be
part of your
life opening up doesn't mean you have to
share everything with everyone but
there's strength and honesty even in
small ways when someone asks how you're
doing try being a little more more
authentic if you're having a hard day
say I'm managing but it's been
challenging if you're feeling grateful
say I'm doing well today I have a lot to
be thankful
for these simple shifts invite deeper
conversations and help build stronger
connections with the people around
you on the flip side I'm fine can also
diminish your moments of Joy how often
do you downplay happy because you don't
want to seem boastful or make others
uncomfortable if you're feeling good let
yourself share that say I'm having a
wonderful day or things are going well
and I'm feeling great positivity is
contagious and sharing your joy can
uplift not just yourself but also those
around
you Breaking Free from I'm fine takes
courage it requires vulnerability and a
willingness to let others into your
world but the reward is worth it when
you speak honestly you create
opportunities for connection
understanding and support you remind
yourself that your feelings whether good
bad or somewhere in between are valid
and worth
sharing life is full of ups and downs
and you don't have to navigate them
alone by letting go of I'm fine you open
the door to deeper relationships and
richer
experiences you allow yourself to be
seen heard and supported in a way that
brings more meaning to your days after
all true connection begins with
authenticity and the courage to say how
you're really feeling is a gift to both
yourself and those who care about you
your words your power redefining life at
any
age words have power far beyond their
immediate meaning they shape how we see
our our eles how others perceive us and
ultimately how we navigate the world as
we age our language can either Empower
us to embrace the fullness of life or
hold us back with limitations and
self-doubt the choice is
ours by letting go of words like just
can't to or I'm fine we open the door to
a life of authenticity connection and
possibility these simple changes in how
we speak can help us reclaim our
confidence honor our wisdom and
celebrate the richness of our
experiences they remind us and those
around us that aging is not an end but a
continuation of growth learning and
living the later years of life are a
gift a time to reflect on the journey
cherish the present and look forward to
what's still to come you are not defined
by your age or any limitations you've
internalized you are defined by the love
you give the wisdom you share and the
joy you bring into the
world so speak with Clarity purpose and
courage let your words reflect the
incredible person you are and watch as
your life transforms with every
intentional conversation connection and
moment of self-empowerment after all
this is your time live it boldly fully
and unapologetically
these lessons are meant to inspire you
to live fully and authentically now I'd
love to hear from you take a moment to
reflect and share one thing you've
learned and plan to apply in your own
life let's support each other on this
journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms