when you grow old the lazier you are at
these eight things the happier you
are aging is a beautiful Journey a time
to embrace the wisdom freedom and
contentment that come with years
well-lived by the time you've reached 65
or older life shouldn't feel like an
endless to-do list in fact the less
energy you spend on things that no
longer serve serve you the more
happiness you'll
find it's not about being Idol it's
about focusing on what truly matters
here are eight things you can afford to
be lazy about and why doing so can make
your golden years truly golden if you
enjoyed this video give it a thumbs up
don't forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update one keeping up with the latest
trends
as the years Roll by one of life's
greatest gifts is the wisdom to know
what truly
matters trying to keep up with the
latest trends whether in technology
fashion or entertainment can feel like
chasing a moving
Target but here's the beauty of growing
older you no longer have to chase
anything the truth is Trends are
fleeting and their significance Fades
when you've lived long enough to see so
many coming go remember when rotary
phones gave way to push buttons or when
classic cars were replaced by Sleek
modern designs each era brings its own
Novelties and while they may hold
interest for a time they don't Define
your worth or your
happiness now is the time to embrace
what feels comfortable familiar and
meaning meaningful to you wear the
clothes that make you feel confident
even if they don't match the pages of
glossy magazines if you love a well-worn
sweater or a pair of shoes that have
seen countless Adventures wear them with
pride they carry your story surround
yourself with the tools and gadgets that
make your life easier not what society
says you need to stay
current by stepping away from the rush
of Trends you create space to focus on
what lasts that could mean nurturing
relationships enjoying Simple Pleasures
or deep deing your connection with
hobbies that bring you Joy instead of
upgrading to the newest phone or
downloading every app you might spend
that time writing a letter to a
grandchild reading a book that touches
your soul or gazing at a sunset without
distraction Trends by their very nature
are designed to make you feel like
you're missing something but you aren't
in fact you have everything you need the
wisdom to prioritize experiences over
appearances and the freedom to make
choices that reflect your unique Journey
the gift of Aging is realizing that
authenticity is far more valuable than
Conformity and the happiness you seek is
already within you waiting to be
cherished two maintaining a perfectly
clean
home for much of your life keeping a
clean and tidy home may have been a
priority a source of Pride or even an
expectation placed upon you it was a way
to create order in a chaotic world to
show care for your family and to present
yourself to guests as someone who had it
all together but as you grow older the
relationship you have with your home can
and should
shift a home isn't meant to be a museum
and life isn't meant to be spent dusting
scrubbing and chasing Perfection your
home is a sanctuary a place where
memories are built and cherished not a
showcase for spotless floors or
perfectly arranged Furniture the scuff
marks on the walls they might remind you
of a time when children or grandchildren
race down the
hallway the slightly worn
couch it's the spot where you've shared
countless cups of coffee quiet evenings
and laughter with loved
ones letting go of the pressure to
maintain a spotless home doesn't mean
giving up on care or Comfort it means
focusing on what truly matters
prioritize what keeps you safe and happy
clear clutter to prevent tripping keep
the kitchen functional for the meals you
enjoy and maintain a space where you can
relax without stress but if a bit of
dust gathers or the windows don't
Sparkle remind yourself that life isn't
lived in the cleaning it's lived in the
living if maintaining your home has
become physically taxing consider
enlisting help this is not a sign of
weakness but a wise acknowledgement of
where to direct your energy
whether it's hiring someone to assist
with heavy tasks or asking family
members to pitch in your time is better
spent creating moments of connection
than wrestling with a vacuum
cleaner most importantly give yourself
permission to redefine what a clean home
means to you perhaps it's one where a
favorite book rests on the coffee table
where the kitchen holds the warm Aroma
of a simple meal or where family photos
and keepsakes are scattered with love a
home is not a reflection of how well you
can dust it's a reflection of the life
you've built and the memories you
continue to
make when you allow yourself to let go
of the pursuit of a perfect home you
create space to enjoy the imperfect
beauty of life itself there's no need to
impress anyone anymore your home is
yours and it's perfect simply because it
holds you in your
story three cooking elaborate
meals for for years the kitchen may have
been your domain a place where you
expressed love nurtured your family and
built Traditions the clatter of pots the
smell of freshly baked bread the warmth
of a meal shared at the table these were
symbols of care and connection but as
you grow older the need to prepare
elaborate timeconsuming meals begins to
fade and that's okay life like cooking
can be simplified without losing its
flavor cooking doesn't have to feel like
a chore in fact it can evolve into
something more intimate and joyful when
you allow yourself to embrace ease a
simple bowl of soup can bring as much
comfort as a lavish dinner spread a
plate of fresh fruit or a warm cup of
tea shared with a loved one can carry as
much meaning as a grand Feast the
essence of a meal isn't in its
complexity it's in the love and
intention behind
it letting go of the pressure to cook
elaborate meals
also create space for creativity and
relaxation you might find joy in
exploring simpler recipes experimenting
with new ingredients or even revisiting
nostalgic flavors from your childhood a
small garden salad made with vegetables
you've grown yourself or a quick pasta
dish paired with a favorite wine can
feel just as satisfying as a meal that
took hours to
prepare and if some days you don't feel
like cooking at all that's perfectly
fine too there's no shame in relying on
ready-made meals ordering takeout or
dining out with friends these choices
don't diminish your care or effort they
simply reflect your understanding of
what you need in the
moment most importantly cooking in your
later years can become less about
obligation and more about savoring the
experience it's not about impressing
anyone or fulfilling expectations it's
about nourishing yourself in body and
spirit sit by the window as your te RS
let the aroma of freshly baked bread
fill the air or share a quiet laugh over
a meal with someone dear to
you these small unhurried moments are
where the true richness of Life
lies remember the most memorable meals
aren't always the ones that are
elaborate they're the ones shared with
laughter seasoned with love and enjoyed
with gratitude by simplifying your
approach to cooking you open yourself to
the deeper joys of Simply being one bite
one meal one beautiful moment at a time
four saying yes to
everything throughout much of life you
may have felt the PLL to say yes to
nearly every request invitation or
opportunity perhaps it was out of Duty
politeness or the desire to meet
expectations but as you grow older you
gain the clarity to realize that saying
yes to everything often means saying no
to yourself now is the time to choose
your commitments carefully and invest
your energy where it truly
matters life is no longer about proving
anything to anyone you've earned the
right to prioritize your own well-being
your own desires and your own peace this
doesn't mean withdrawing from the world
it means engaging with it on your own
terms it's not selfish it's wise by
honoring your own needs you preserve
your energy for the people and
activities that bring you
Joy when you say no to something you're
not rejecting others You're simply
setting boundaries that reflect your
values in your current stage of Life
perhaps it's an event that feels more
like an obligation than a joy or a task
that would take more energy than it's
worth declining these isn't a loss it's
a gain a gain of time to spend on what
truly enriches your life
saying no also creates room for the
beauty of spontaneity when your schedule
isn't overpacked you can Embrace
unexpected moments a surprise phone call
from an old friend an afternoon spent
watching the clouds roll by or an
unplanned walk in the garden these small
unstructured Joys are often the ones
that linger in your heart the
longest on the other hand when you
choose to say yes let it be a
wholehearted decision say yes to the
things that make your spirit sore a
family gathering that fills the house
with laughter a new hobby that Sparks
curiosity or a quiet cup of coffee
shared with someone dear when you say
yes to what truly matters you're not
just spending your time you're enriching
it your time energy and presence are
precious
gifts use them wisely and remember that
you don't need to be everything to
everyone the freedom to say no is one of
the greatest privileges of growing older
it allows you to step into a life that
feels authentic balanced and meaning
meaningful
ultimately the choices you make in your
later years should reflect the life you
want to live not the life others expect
of You by saying yes to what matters
most and no to what doesn't you give
yourself the gift of time peace peace
and
happiness that's the kind of abundance
that truly makes these years
golden five worrying about what others
think as the years pass one of life's
most liberating lessons becomes clear
the opinions of others don't Define you
when you're young it's easy to get
caught up in how people perceive you
what you wear how you speak the choices
you make but with age comes wisdom and
with wisdom comes the realization that
what truly matters is how you feel about
yourself in your younger years you may
have worked tirelessly to meet
expectations often sacrificing your own
Comfort or happiness in the process but
now as you step into the richness of
later life there is freedom in letting
go of that invisible weight the beauty
of Aging is that you've earned the right
to prioritize authenticity over approval
you no longer need to measure your worth
by the standards of others
instead you can Define it by the values
and experiences that resonate with your
heart imagine the peace that comes from
stepping out of the spotlight of
judgment and living fully in your own
truth this might mean dressing in a way
that feels comfortable and uniquely you
regardless of what's fashionable it
could mean pursuing Hobbies or interests
that others don't understand but that
bring you immense Joy it might even mean
saying something you've long held back
simply because it feels right to speak
your
mind releasing the fear of judgment also
opens the door to vulnerability which is
where genuine connections are born when
you let others see you for who you truly
are flaws quirks and all you invite them
to do the same in this way letting go of
worry about others opinions doesn't
distance you from people it brings you
closer to the ones who matter
most of course letting go of this worry
doesn't happen overnight years of habit
can't simply be erased but every time
you choose to prioritize your own
happiness over the opinions of others
you take a step toward greater Freedom
whether it's skipping an event you don't
enjoy or embracing a new passion that
makes you feel alive these small acts of
courage build a life that is
unapologetically
yours the truth is most people are far
more focused on their own lives than
they are on yours and those who truly
care about you won't judge you they'll
celebrate you they'll value your
authenticity and admire your courage to
live life on your own
terms at this stage in life you have
nothing to prove and no one to impress
you are the author of your own story and
the only critic who matters is you by
letting go of the need to worry about
others thoughts you reclaim your time
your energy and your joy
that's the kind of Freedom that makes
every moment sweeter and every decision
lighter after all your happiness is too
precious to be shaped by anyone but you
six keeping a packed
schedule for much of Life a full
calendar has been a badge of honor a
sign of productivity and purpose there
were meetings to attend appointments to
keep and countless commitments demanding
your attention
but as you grow older the pace of Life
naturally shifts and the beauty of this
chapter lies in the permission to slow
down and Savor each
moment a packed schedule is no longer a
measure of your worth or Vitality in
fact the greatest gift you can give
yourself now is the freedom to leave
room for Stillness spontaneity and
unstructured time life becomes richer
when it's not lived in a rush but in a
rhythm that feels natural and nourishing
imagine a day without an endless
checklist where you wake up without a
clock dictating your every move you
might linger over your morning coffee
letting its warmth ease you into the day
perhaps you'll take a leisurely walk
noticing the birds the gentle rustle of
leaves or the way the sunlight dances
through the
trees These Quiet Moments free from the
tyranny of schedules are where life
unfolds in its simplest and most
profound
Beauty letting go of of a packed
schedule doesn't mean withdrawing from
life it means choosing how to fill your
time with intention say yes to the
things that truly light you up a visit
with a friend a new hobby or a day spent
with family and say no to anything that
feels more like an obligation than a joy
your time is your own and it's far too
precious to be spent on anything that
doesn't enrich your
spirit there's 's also magic in leaving
space for the unexpected when your
calendar isn't overflowing you have the
freedom to embrace life's little
surprises a spontaneous phone call from
a loved one an afternoon nap that
rejuvenates your soul or an unplanned
outing to explore a nearby park can
bring a sense of wonder that no
carefully planned schedule ever
could in stepping away from busyness you
also create room for reflection in
gratitude
time slows and you begin to notice the
things that were once overlooked the
sound of laughter echoing through your
home the softness of a favorite blanket
or the way a beloved song stirs your
heart these moments unremarkable at
first glance are the threads that weave
together a life well-
lived you've spent years managing
schedules meeting deadlines and striving
to keep up now is the time to embrace a
life that flows rather than one that's
tightly
choreographed trust that in the spaces
you leave unfilled you'll find the most
meaningful experiences the ones that
remind you of the joy of Simply being
your golden years are not about racing
against time but about walking hand
inand with it savoring every step by
letting go of the need to keep a packed
schedule you open the door to a life
filled with ease um wonder and deep
contentment and in that space happiness
finds you
effortlessly seven holding
grudges as the years go by the weight of
grudges can feel heavier than ever the
resentment anger or disappointment we
hold on to may have roots in moments
long past yet they continue to cast
Shadows over our present but here's a
profound truth letting go of grudges
isn't just an act of forgiveness for
others it's an act of Liberation for
yourself life is too fleeting and
precious to carry the burden of Old
Wounds each day you spend replaying a
hurtful memory or clinging to resentment
is a day you sacrifice the peace and joy
you deserve the person who hurt you may
not even be aware of The Grudge you
carry but its impact reverberates in
your heart and your mind and your health
releasing a grudge doesn't mean excusing
the wrong or pretending it didn't matter
instead it's about reclaiming your power
and choosing not to let the pain Define
you it's an acknowledgement that while
you can't change the past you can shape
your present and future by refusing to
let bitterness take up residence in your
soul forgiveness is not always easy and
it's rarely instantaneous it might
require time reflection and even a
little Grace toward yourself as you
navigate the complex emotions involved
but with each step you take toward
forgiveness you lighten the load you
carry you create space in your heart for
peace love and the beauty of the life
that's unfolding before
you sometimes forgiveness may include
reaching out to men to broken
relationship a conversation a
handwritten letter or a small gesture of
kindness can open doors to Healing other
times forgiveness is a quiet private act
a decision to let go uh internally even
if reconciliation isn't possible both
forms are equally powerful because they
free you from the chains of anger and
hurt letting go of grudges also teaches
us about the imperfection of Being Human
none of us goes through life unscathed
by mistakes our own or those of others
in releasing Judgment of others we often
find it easier to to extend the same
compassion to ourselves and in doing so
we open the door to deeper relationships
built on understanding rather than
resentment when you let go of a grudge
you make room for joy to flow back into
your life imagine the lightness of heart
that comes from no longer holding on to
bitterness the peace of mind that
replaces turmoil and the emotional
energy that becomes available for the
people and experiences that truly
matter you've already traveled a long
road in life filled with challenges
triumphs and growth don't let the weight
of old grudges keep you from fully
enjoying the journey ahead by letting go
you not only set others free you set
yourself free and that freedom is the
key to living your later years with a
heart unburdened and a spirit filled
with contentment
eight chasing
Perfection for much of life you may have
felt the invisible pole of perfection
the idea that success happiness or even
self-worth could only be found in
getting everything just right whether it
was striving for the perfect appearance
maintaining an Immaculate home or living
up to the expectations of others the
pursuit of perfection often felt endless
but as you grow older the beauty of
imperfection becomes clear and with it
comes a profound sense of
Freedom Perfection as it turns out was
never the goal it was an illusion life
is messy unpredictable and full of
beautiful imperfections that give it
depth and meaning the wrinkles on your
hands the graying of your hair the
quirks of a well-loved home these are
not flaws to be hidden they are the
evidence of a life well lived a
testament to your journey in a reminder
of the wisdom and strength you've gained
gained along the
way imagine the joy that comes from
releasing yourself from the exhausting
pursuit of better in embracing the
beauty of enough your garden doesn't
need to bloom with flawless flowers to
be a sanctuary the Crooked blooms and
resilient weeds tell their own story of
Nature's resilience your hobbies don't
need to produce masterpieces to bring
you Joy whether it's knitting with a few
misted stitches or painting with colors
that don't quite stay in the line
the act of creating is what nourishes
your
soul letting go of perfection also
deepens your relationships no one needs
you to be Flawless they need you to be
present authentic and real when you
allow others to see you as you are it
gives them permission to do the same in
this way imperfection becomes a bridge
to deeper connection and
understanding this doesn't mean giving
up on care or effort it means shifting
your focus from unattainable ideals to
the richness of reality a meal doesn't
need to be Gourmet to nourish a home
doesn't need to be spotless to feel warm
and
inviting a life doesn't need to be
perfect to be profoundly
Beautiful by embracing imperfection you
also give yourself the gift of Peace you
no longer need to judge yourself by
impossible standards or measure measure
your worth by what you produce or
achieve instead you can rest in the
knowledge that who you are right now is
enough the lines on your face are not
signs of age but of wisdom the moments
you cherish don't need to be polished or
planned they simply need to be
lived at this stage in life chasing
Perfection is not only unnecessary it's
counterproductive the most meaningful
experience is often come from the
imperfect moments the laughter that
follows a mistake the beauty of an
unplanned detour the quiet contentment
of accepting things as they
are when you stop chasing Perfection you
make room for gratitude joy and
contentment you discover that the life
you have is not just good enough it's
extraordinary in its own imperfect way
and in that Discovery you find the kind
of happiness that no Flawless
achievement could ever
provide conclusion embracing the freedom
of Letting
Go as the sun sets on the busyness and
striving of earlier years it illuminates
a profound truth the key to happiness in
your later years isn't found in doing
more proving more or being more it's
found in the gentle Act of Letting Go
letting go of perfection of past
grievances of of unnecessary burdens and
of the Relentless need to meet the
world's expectations what remains is the
essence of who you are unencumbered and
free this stage of life is not about
adding to your days but deepening them
it's about savoring the simple moments
that once slipped by unnoticed the
warmth of sunlight on your face the
sound of laughter echoing in your home
the piece of a quiet evening spent with
your thoughts it's about recognizing
that the imperfections the pauses and
even the losses are what give life its
texture and
meaning true happiness in your later
years comes from embracing the life
you've lived its Joys its lessons its
scars and finding contentment in the
person you've become it's about focusing
not on what you haven't done but on the
beauty of all that you have accomplished
all the love you've shared and the
legacy of wisdom and kindness you leave
behind
so as you move forward remember that the
less you carry the farther and lighter
you can go let yourself be lazy at the
things that no longer serve you and in
doing so open yourself to the profound
Joy of Simply being these years are not
a time of decline they are a time of
distillation a chance to focus on what
truly matters love connection gratitude
and peace
you are not defined by what you let go
of but by the grace with which you let
go and in that Grace lies a happiness as
deep and enduring as the life you've
lived these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and authentically now
I'd love to hear from you take a moment
to reflect and share one thing you've
learned and plan to apply in your own
life let's support each other on this
journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms