I'm 70 living has become unaffordable
except for the
rich in my 70 years I've seen America
change in unimaginable ways both for
better and for worse but as I sit here
reflecting on life one thing has become
abundantly clear for many of us who've
worked hard all our lives the cost of
Simply existing has spiraled out of
reach living has become
unaffordable especially for older
Americans like you and me who aren't
wealthy this is not just an economic
issue it's a deeply personal one
affecting our dignity security and peace
of
mind let's unpack why this is happening
and more importantly what we can do to
navigate these challenging
times if you enjoyed this video give it
a thumbs up don't forget to subscribe
and turn on notifications so you never
miss an update
the rising cost of living a crisis for
seniors at 70 I've lived through Decades
of change some remarkable others
heartbreaking yet nothing compares to
the financial strain so many of us face
today the rising cost of living has
become a crisis particularly for seniors
who've worked hard all their lives only
to find that their golden years are
tarnished by economic hardship this
isn't just about numbers it's about the
emotional toll of trying to make ends
meet the anxiety of stretching every
dollar and the fear of what tomorrow
might
bring for many of us the promise of
retirement once symbolized Freedom a
time to enjoy Family Travel hobbies and
Simple Pleasures but now it feels more
like a trap the very necessities of life
housing Health Care food and utilities
have become unaffordable luxuries
and unlike younger Generations we don't
have the luxury of time to recover
financially we're not looking for
handouts we're looking for fairness
dignity and a chance to live with peace
of
mind housing costs have spiraled out of
control for those of us who still have a
mortgage or rely on rental housing
monthly payments often consume the bulk
of our fixed incomes seniors who had
hoped to downsize or move to a
affordable retirement communities are
finding that even the smallest homes
come with price tags far beyond their
reach and for those who've lost their
homes whether due to Rising rents
medical bills or unexpected Financial
setbacks homelessness is not just a
distant fear it's a reality living in a
car or RV or relying on shelters has
become an all too common story for older
Americans who once thought they spend
their later years
comfortably then there's healthc care an
essential but increasingly unaffordable
expense Medicare offers some relief but
it's far from
comprehensive prescription drug prices
remain outrageously High forcing many
seniors to choose between buying
medication and putting food on the
table skipping doses delaying doctor
visits or for going going treatments
alog together have become coping
strategies but at what cost to our
Health and
Longevity we've spent our lives
contributing to this system yet when we
need it most it feels like the safety
net has been pulled out from under
us food in security something many of us
never imagined facing in our later years
is another harsh reality grocery bills
have soared in simple Staples bread milk
eggs now feel like
luxuries inflation which was once a
distant economic term now hits us
directly every time we visit the store
for those who rely on food stamps or
food pantries the stigma and frustration
of not having enough to eat can be
overwhelming eating healthily so
critical to aging well often takes a
backseat to Simply eating
enough utilities are another Relentless
burden heating a home in Winter or
cooling it in summer has become a
question of survival for many seniors
particularly in extreme climates we find
ourselves sitting in the cold or
sweltering heat worried about whether
the next utility bill will push us
further into debt these are not
decisions anyone should have to make
especially after a lifetime of hard
work even the smallest Joys taking a
trip to visit family treating
grandchildren to a small gift or
enjoying an occasional Night Out Feel
Out Of Reach for many instead of living
our later years with fulfillment and
pride we're burdened by guilt and worry
questioning every dollar spent the
mental and emotional toll of these
constant Financial struggles is profound
anxiety depression and a sense of
hopelessness weigh heavily on seniors
who feel abandoned by A system that
promised security but delivered stress
the most heartbreaking part of this
crisis is its
unfairness we've contributed to Society
for decades raising families working
tirelessly and paying into systems like
Social Security and Medicare we've lived
through Wars economic downturns and
countless challenges yet we persevered
with the hope that our efforts would
provide a stable foundation for our
later years to Now find ourselves
scraping by often feeling invisible or
for forgotten is a deep
Injustice but let's not forget that
resilience is in our nature we've
weathered storms before and we will
weather this one too however we must
acknowledge the reality of our struggles
not as a sign of weakness but as a call
to action it's time to advocate for
change for policies that respect and
support the generations who built this
country and it's time to lean on one
another sharing resources wisdom and
support to navigate these challenges
together the rising cost of living is
not just a crisis of Economics it's a
crisis of humanity we deserve better not
because of entitlement but because of
the lives we've lived and the
contributions we've made Let's demand
fairness and dignity for all seniors
ensuring that our later years are not
defined by Financial despair but by the
comfort and respect we've earned two why
is this
happening as I reflect on the financial
struggles so many of us face today I
can't help but wonder why is this
happening why have our golden years
years we were told would be peaceful and
secure become so fraught with
uncertainty and hardship the answers are
complex rud rooted in systems and
decisions that often feel far removed
from our daily lives yet directly impact
every aspect of how we
live at its core this crisis is a
reflection of systemic inequities that
have been building for decades
corporations Banks and policy makers
have made choices that prioritize profit
over people creating a Chasm between the
wealthy and the rest of us credit card
companies for example are quick to
extend loans and credit lines during
times of economic growth often targeting
those least able to repay them during
the pandemic When government stimulus
checks temporarily padded bank accounts
these companies handed out credit cards
like candy banking on the illusion of
financial stability but once that money
ran out the bills came due and for many
repayment was impossible these companies
knew this would happen but they
continued their practices because they
could shift the burden onto taxpayers or
write off their
losses meanwhile those of us caught in
the Trap are left with damaged credit
mounting debt and no clear way
out the housing market is another
glaring example of why life has become
so unaffordable for years we've been
told that home ownership is the
Cornerstone of the American dream a way
to build stability and Equity yet
housing prices have risen so
dramatically that even modest homes are
Out Of Reach for many for those of us
who rent the story is just as Grim
landlords facing their own Rising costs
pass those expenses on to tenants
creating a cycle of unaffordability and
what happens when you can no longer pay
your rent or mortgage you face the
devastating Prospect of losing your home
a prospect that has become all too real
for countless
seniors healthc care is no
different it's an essential part of life
especially as we age yet it feels
designed to work against us prescription
drug prices are so high that many are
forced to ration their medications or go
without altogether Medicare while a
Lifeline is often inadequate to cover
the full scope of our needs and for
those without substantial savings even a
single medical emergency can spell
financial ruin these aren't abstract
issues they're choices made by
pharmaceutical companies insurance
providers and policy makers who
prioritize profits over the well-being
of millions of
Americans inflation too plays a
significant role in our struggles it's
often spoken about in terms that feel
distant in technical percentages and
economic models but for us it's
painfully tangible it's the rising cost
of groceries Gas Utilities in every
other necessity it's the shrinking value
of the Social Security checks we rely on
to survive and while some inflation is
natural the kind we're experiencing now
feels like a tidal wave leaving us
scrambling to adjust without the
resources to do so behind these systemic
issues lies a deeper truth we are living
in a time of profound economic
inequality while the wealthiest enjoy
tax breaks and financial windfalls the
rest of us are left to Bear the burden
of their excess
corporations find ways to avoid paying
their fair share using loopholes and
writeoffs to Shield their profits
meanwhile everyday Americans
particularly seniors on fixed incomes
are asked to shoulder the rising cost
through taxes reduce services and higher
fees this imbalance isn't accidental
it's the result of Decades of policies
that have favored the few at the expense
of the
many there's also an emotional toll to
consider when you spent a lifetime
working hard raising a family
contributing to your community and
paying into systems like Social Security
and Medicare it's heartbreaking to find
yourself in a position where none of
that seems to matter it feels like a
betrayal as though the promises made to
us Promises of security dignity and Care
have been broken and while it's easy to
blame ourselves or feel ashamed for
struggling the truth is that these
challenges are not our fault they are
the result of a system that that has
failed to prioritize the well-being of
its
people this is why it's happening
because profit has been placed above
people because short-term gains have
been valued over long-term stability and
because those in power have chosen to
ignore the struggles of everyday
Americans but understanding the reasons
behind this crisis is the first step
toward addressing it we must hold these
systems accountable demand change
and refuse to accept a status quo that
leaves so many of us
behind as I write this I'm reminded of
the resilience and strength of Our
Generation we've faced challenges before
and we've overcome them through
determination solidarity and a
commitment to doing what's right this
crisis is no different while the road
ahead may be difficult I believe we have
the power to create a future where
living isn't just for the rich
it's for all of
us and that begins by asking the hard
questions seeking the real answers and
standing together to demand the change
we
deserve three practical advice for
seniors when life feels like it's
closing in when bills pile up prices SAR
and the security you've worked your
whole life to build feels like like it's
slipping through your fingers it's easy
to feel overwhelmed but even in the face
of these challenges there are steps we
can take to regain control preserve our
dignity and carve out a life that feels
stable and meaning meaningful it's not
easy but it's possible practical
thoughtful actions can make all the
difference in navigating these difficult
times the first step is acknowledging
where we are financially for many
seniors the thought of sitting down and
analyzing expenses feels daunting but
it's an essential foundation for making
informed decisions begin with a clear
budget write down every source of income
whether it's Social Security pensions or
part-time work and compare it against
your monthly expenses look carefully at
what's essential versus what's
discretionary the act of seeing
everything laid out can bring Clarity
even if the numbers feel discouraging at
first one strategy that has helped many
is tackling debt headon especially
credit card debt which often comes with
high interest rates that can quickly
spiral out of control a method like the
snowball approach paying off the
smallest debt first then rolling those
payments into larger debts can build
momentum and provide a sense of
accomplishment for those with
significant balances across multiple
cards transferring them to a credit card
with a zero% introductory interest rate
can be a Lifeline it gives you breathing
room allowing you to focus on paying
down the principle without the
Relentless accumulation of interest if
these options feel Out Of Reach consider
reaching out to your creditors directly
many companies are surprisingly willing
to negotiate lower rates or set up
payment plans especially for longtime
customers Beyond tackling debt there are
ways to stretch every dollar further if
housing costs have become an
overwhelming burden it might be time to
explore altern atives downsizing to a
smaller more affordable space is not
just a financial decision it can also
bring Peace of Mind by reducing the
responsibilities of home ownership for
some moving in with family or exploring
senior living communities with shared
amenities can create a support network
that goes beyond just Financial relief
these decisions are deeply personal but
they're worth considering if your
current situation feels
unsustainable health heare often one of
the largest expenses for seniors
requires careful management take full
advantage of medicare's offerings and
explore supplemental insurance plans to
fill in the gaps many states and local
organizations also offer programs to
help with prescription costs or medical
equipment don't hesitate to ask your
health care providers about generic
medication options or assistance
programs sometimes the resources are
there but you must must advocate for
yourself to access
them food is another area where costs
can quickly add up but there are
resources available to help programs
like Snap supplemental nutrition
assistance program are designed to
ensure no one goes hungry and many local
food banks and senior centers offer
meals or grocery assistance eating well
is critical for maintaining health and
energy so don't let Pride stop you from
seeking the help you deserve remember
remember these programs exist because
someone somewhere believed that no
senior should go without Community can
also be a powerful source of strength
during tough times isolation often
compounds Financial stress making
problems feel insurmountable reach out
to friends neighbors or local senior
groups sharing experiences tips and even
resources can create a sense of
solidarity and mutual support
many churches community centers and
nonprofits offer workshops activities or
financial counseling tailored
specifically for seniors the simple Act
of connecting with others who understand
your struggles can lighten the emotional
burden it's also worth considering
opportunities to supplement your income
even if it's just a little many seniors
find part-time or freelance work not
only helps financially but also provides
a sense of purpose and connection
whether it's babysitting tutoring
Consulting in your field of expertise or
selling handmade crafts there are
countless ways to leverage your skills
and experience programs that match
seniors with flexible job opportunities
can be a great starting
point as we navigate these challenges
it's important to remember that asking
for help is not a sign of failure it's a
sign of strength whether it's reaching
out to a family member a financial
advisor or a local organization there's
power
in recognizing when you need support
many of us were raised to believe in
self-reliance but the truth is no one
gets through life entirely on their own
accepting help when it's offered and
seeking it when it's not can open doors
you didn't even know
existed ultimately the key to surviving
and thriving in these difficult times
lies in taking small consistent
steps focus on what you can control even
if it feels like just a little celebrate
every Victory no matter how small a debt
paid off a new connection made or a week
without unexpected
expenses these moments remind us that
progress is possible and that we are
capable of overcoming even the toughest
challenges life in our later years was
meant to be a time of peace and
enjoyment and while the current reality
may not always reflect that that it
doesn't mean we have to give up on the
dream by approaching our challenges with
practicality persistence and a
willingness to adapt we can find ways to
reclaim our dignity and
stability we face so much throughout our
lives Wars recessions personal hardships
and we've come through it all this is
just another chapter and with resilience
and resourcefulness we can write it on
our terms
four policy changes we should
demand as seniors we have spent decades
contributing to this country working
raising families paying taxes and
building
communities yet as the cost of living
continues to rise and economic pressures
mount it feels as though the systems we
helped create have turned their backs on
us it doesn't have to be this way
we have the power through our voices and
Collective action to demand the changes
necessary to ensure that no one's later
years are defined by Financial struggle
or
insecurity the first and most urgent
demand is for a reevaluation of social
security for many of us Social Security
is the Cornerstone of our retirement
income yet it is increasingly
insufficient the cost of living
adjustments Cay applied to Social
Security benefits are based on outdated
measures that fail to capture the true
true inflation faced by seniors
especially in areas like healthcare and
housing policy makers must adopt more
accurate metrics that reflect the actual
costs impacting retirees it's not just
an adjustment it's about fairness we've
paid into this system for decades
trusting it would be there for us now
it's time for it to deliver on that
Promise Health Care policy is another
critical area demanding immediate reform
for too long pharmaceutical companies
and Healthcare Providers have
prioritized profits over patients
driving up the costs of life-saving
medications and essential care
prescription drug prices must be capped
ensuring that no senior has to choose
between buying medication and buying
food Medicare should be expanded to
include comprehensive coverage for
vision dental and hearing basic health
care needs that are inexplicably left
out moreover long-term care often a
crippling expense must become more
accessible seniors should not have to
drain their LIF savings or go bankrupt
to receive the care they
need affordable housing must also take
center stage in policy discussions the
skyrocketing cost of housing has pushed
many older Americans to the brink with
some losing their homes altogether
governments at every level must invest
in affordable senior housing including
tax credits for devel Vel opers who
build age-friendly communities and
subsidies for low-income seniors rent
control policies and property tax relief
for seniors can provide immediate relief
allowing us to stay in our homes without
fear of being priced
out tax policy reform is another
essential demand for years corporations
and the wealthiest individuals have
benefited from loopholes and deductions
that leave them paying a fraction of
what they owe mean meanwhile ordinary
Americans especially those of us on
fixed incomes bear the brunt of the tax
burden this imbalance must be corrected
corporations that write off billions in
bad loans or exploit tax shelters must
be held accountable it's time for a fair
tax system that ensures the wealthiest
pay their share relieving some of the
pressure on middle and lower inome
households Beyond specific policies
we must also advocate for stronger
consumer protections credit card
companies Banks and other financial
institutions must face stricter
regulations to prevent predatory lending
practices during the pandemic we saw how
these institutions extended credit
recklessly knowing full well that many
borrowers would struggle to repay the
result has been a surge in defaults and
a growing burden on seniors who relied
on credit credit to cover basic expenses
Regulators must step in to ensure that
lending practices are responsible and
fair protecting vulnerable populations
from being
exploited another area of urgent reform
is the safety net for involuntary
homelessness while it's true that some
people may choose to live outside
traditional housing many seniors
experiencing homelessness are there
because of circumstances beyond their
control loss of income medical
emergencies or natural
disasters we need policies that
prioritize helping these individuals get
back on their feet including expanded
shelter programs job placement
initiatives and mental health services
at the same time resources must be
focused where they're needed most
ensuring that those who want help can
access it without unnecessary barriers
oray
education and awareness also play a
critical role in driving change seniors
often feel left out of the policymaking
process yet we are one of the most
politically engaged groups in the
country we need to use our voices to
demand that lawmakers prioritize issues
affecting older Americans writing
letters attending town halls and voting
in every election local state and
National are powerful ways to ensure
sure our concerns are heard advocacy
groups and Senior organizations can
amplify our voices but they need our
participation and support to be
effective finally we must push for a
broader cultural shift that values aging
and respects the contributions of older
adults the struggles we Face are not
just Financial they're deeply tied to
how Society views and treats its Elders
policies should reflect a commitment to
dignity recognizing that seniors are not
a burden but a vital part of the
community from providing opportunities
for lifelong learning to encouraging
intergenerational programs there are
countless ways to build a society where
aging is seen as a stage of life to be
respected and
celebrated these changes won't come
easily and they won't come overnight but
the history has shown that progress is
possible when people stand together and
demand better as seniors we have the
wisdom experience and resilience to lead
this charge we've spent our lives
contributing to this nation and it's
time for that contribution to be
acknowledged with policies that support
and uplift us in our later
years the road ahead may be long but
it's worth traveling for ourselves for
each other and for the generations that
will come after us together we can
ensure that Aging in America is not a
struggle for survival
but a time of security dignity and peace
that is the Legacy we should leave
behind that is the change we should
demand a final reflection a call to
resilience and
unity as I reflect on the challenges we
face today Rising costs dwindling
resources and the sense of being
forgotten by a system we helped build I
am reminded of the strength and
resilience of Our Generation we have
weathered Wars recessions social
upheavals and personal struggles we have
raised families built communities and
contributed to the foundation of this
nation and now as we navigate the most
trying times in our later years that
same resilience must guide us forward
the challenges we Face are daunting but
they are not insurmountable each of us
has the power to make a difference
whether by taking control of our
personal finances reaching out for
support or advocating for the systemic
changes we know are needed alone the
path may seem overwhelming but together
we are a force to be reckoned with our
voices our stories and our Collective
will can Inspire the changes that will
not only benefit us but pave the way for
a better future for the generations that
follow let us not be defined by the
hardships we endure but by the strength
with which we face them let us demand a
society that values its Elders not just
in words but in Action a society that
honors the years we have given and the
wisdom we have to share let us support
one another lifting each other up in
times of need and never losing sight of
the dignity we
deserve we may not control The Winds of
Change but we can adjust our sales
together with courage and determin
Nation we can ensure that the years
ahead are not marked by fear or scarcity
but by the peace respect and security we
have earned this is not just about
survival it is about living fully with
purpose and pride that is the Legacy we
must fight for that is the future we
must
create these lessons are meant to
inspire you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear hear
from you take a moment to reflect and
share one thing you've learned and plan
to apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms