I'm
70 I don't masturbate anymore here's
why as someone who has reached the age
of 70 life brings a unique perspective
I've experienced the highs and lows
navigated through the phases of physical
and emotional changes and come to
understand the deeper truths about what
truly brings fulfillment one such area
where my perspective has evolved is in
the realm of self-intimacy
specifically
masturbation while it's a subject many
shy away from discussing openly I
believe sharing my reasons for why I've
chosen a stop could resonate with others
in my age group especially those who are
looking to reflect on their own habits
and
choices for those of us in our senior
years this topic isn't about judgment or
shame but rather understanding what
aligns with our current needs values and
well-being here are my thoughts and
experiences laid out with honesty that
have led to this
decision if you enjoyed this video give
it a thumbs up don't forget to subscribe
and turn on notifications so you never
miss an
update one a shift in priorities and
energy at 70 life feels both expansive
and finite Paradox that has brought a
Clarity I never fully grasped in my
younger years time once abundant and
easily spent now feels precious a
resource to be cherished and used with
intention this shift in perspective has
touched every part of my life including
the habits and routines I've carried
with me for decades as I've grown older
I've come to realize that masturbation
once a familiar and unexamined part of
my life no longer aligns with how I want
to spend my time my energy or even my
attention this isn't about rejection or
denial it's about growth about
understanding that what once served me
no longer fits within the broad tapestry
of who I've
become in my youth masturbation was an
outlet a way to explore my body and
manage the stresses of a busy life it
was Private uncomplicated and often
comforting but as the years have passed
my relationship with my body and my
desires has changed masturbation while
natural and even beneficial in earlier
phases of life began to feel more like a
habit than a meaningful Act I started to
ask myself is this truly adding to my
well-being is this the best way to spend
my time and energy in this stage of Life
the answer for me became increasingly
clear it
wasn't what shifted most profoundly is
how I now prioritize connection and
presence the fleeting satisfaction of
physical release no longer holds the
same weight it once did especially when
compared to the deeper Joys that come
from meaning meaningful relationships
creative Pursuits or moments of quiet
reflection I've learned to channel the
energy that once went towards solitary
indulgences into activities that enrich
my life in lasting ways a conversation
with a friend the act of nurturing a
garden or even sitting in Stillness with
a good book these moments offer a kind
of fulfillment that resonates far beyond
the
moment this shift isn't about avoiding
desire but about choosing how to direct
it desire I've learned isn't just
physical it's a force that drives us
toward connection creativity and Purpose
By stepping away from masturbation I've
found new ways to engage with that
energy redirecting it toward the things
that truly matter to me now it's not a
loss but a reimagining a way to honor
the person I've become and the life I
want to lead two physical changes and
health
considerations aging brings with it
undeniable changes to the body many of
which I never truly anticipated until I
began living
them there was a time when my body
responded with ease and vitality when
touch brought immediate Comfort or
pleasure and when Energy felt boundless
but with each passing decade those
Sensations began to shift subtly at
first and then more
noticeably at 70 I Now understand that
my phys physical self is no longer the
same and I've grown to embrace these
changes with a sense of acceptance and
Grace my decision to stop masturbating
is deeply tied to these Transformations
and the recognition that my relationship
with my body has
evolved over the years hormonal shifts
have subtly but significantly changed my
physical desires it's not that I've lost
the capacity for pleasure the intensity
has lessened Sensations that once felt
sharp and electrifying are now softer
quieter and sometimes elusive this isn't
a source of sadness for me but rather a
realization that The rhythms of my body
have
slowed and that's okay what I used to
seek through physical release I now find
through gentler more nourishing
activities a quiet walk in the sunshine
or the feeling of my hands immersed in
the soil of my garden can bring me a
kind of Peace that's deeply satisfying
in a way that physical intimacy no
longer is
Health has also become a more prominent
factor in my decision over time I face
the small but persistent aches and pains
that come with age arthritis in my hands
occasional stiffness and the slower
recovery from
exertion these physical realities make
me more conscious of how I treat my body
where once I may have indulged in
physical habits out of impulse or
routine I now approach my body with
greater care and thoughtfulness I've
learned to listen to it to respect its
limits and to focus on what feels truly
nurturing for many people my age health
challenges can alter the way we interact
with our own bodies whether it's
mobility issues circulatory concerns or
even the fatigue that comes with certain
medications these factors can change the
way we approach self-care in my case
I've found that what my body craves most
now is rest and renewal not stimula
this doesn't feel like a loss to me but
a Natural Evolution a shift toward
prioritizing well-being over fleeting
gratification three embracing emotional
intimacy over physical
release if there's one thing I've come
to understand in my later years it's
that emotional intimacy far outweighs
physical release in terms of depth and
meaning in my youth masturbation often
served as a quick fix a way to deal with
stress loneliness or simply to escape
the noise of daily life it was
convenient private and uncomplicated but
as I've aged I've realized that these
fleeting moments of release pale in
comparison to the profound satisfaction
that comes from genuine emotional
connection over time I've come to see
masturbation as a solitary act that
while natural and even beneficial at
certain stages of life no longer aligns
with my needs at this point in my
journey I crave connection not just with
others but with myself in a way that
feels more intentional and meaningful
when I feel lonely I no longer turn
inward to seek physical Comfort instead
I reach outward a phone call to an old
friend or a heartfelt chat with my
partner provides the kind of connection
that lingers long after the moment has
passed it's this kind of intimacy rooted
in trust vulnerability and shared
experience that brings me the greatest
sense of
fulfillment emotional intimacy isn't
just about connecting with others it's
also about fostering a deeper
relationship with myself through
meditation and quiet reflection I've
learned to sit with my emotions rather
than seek to sue them through physical
means this practice has been
transformative it's taught me to embrace
feelings of sadness or longing without
rushing to resolve them in doing so I've
developed a greater sense of resilience
and inner peace these moments of
Stillness have become a Cornerstone of
my well-being offering a kind of Solace
that I never knew I
needed for me this journey has also been
about redefining what pleasure means in
my younger years I equated pleasure with
physical Sensations the kind that could
be accessed quickly and without much
thought but now I find joy in the
subtler quieter moments of life there's
immense pleasure in holding my
grandchild's hand in the warmth of a
good cup of tea or in the laughter
shared during a Sunday dinner with
family these experiences remind me that
pleasure doesn't have to be fleeting or
solitary it can be woven into the fabric
of daily life in ways that are deeply
enriching this shift toward emotional
intimacy has been one of the most
rewarding aspects of Aging for me it's
allowed me to let go of habits that no
longer serve me and replace them with
practices that nurture My Soul by
focusing on connection both with myself
and others I found a sense of purpose
and contentment that I didn't fully
appreciate in my younger
years as I reflect on these changes I
feel grateful for the wisdom that comes
with age life at 70 is about embracing
the Transformations that naturally occur
and finding new ways to experience Joy
and fulfillment my decision to stop
masturbating isn't about denial or
judgment it's about recognizing that the
things that once served me no longer do
and in their place I've discovered a
world of deeper more meaningful
connections connections that remind me
of the beauty and richness of this stage
of life four spiritual growth in
perspective reaching my 70s has opened
up a chapter of life that feels in many
ways more spiritual than any that came
before there's something about the
passage of time that deepens our
awareness of life's fleeting nature of
its fragility and its beauty in this
phase I find myself drawn to the
intangible the moments of Stillness
gratitude and connection to something
larger than myself this shift has
profoundly shaped my relationship with
my body and with the practices I engage
in including the decision to step away
from
masturbation for much of my life I saw
my body as a source of pleasure a tool
for navigating the world in an anchor to
the Physical Realm but as I've aged my
perspective has evolved I now see my
body as a vessel something to be cared
for respected and cherished but also as
something
temporary this awareness has changed the
way I approach self-care instead of
seeking immediate gratification or
physical pleasure I'm more Focus focused
on practices that nurture my spirit
prayer meditation and mindfulness have
become Central to my life they provide a
sense of peace and fulfillment that
feels much deeper and more lasting than
any physical sensation could
offer masturbation for all its
naturalness and benefits in earlier
stages of life now feels out of step
with my current priorities it's not
about shame or moral judgment it's
simply that my focus has shifted my
spiritual journey has brought me a sense
of clarity and Alignment that I didn't
fully grasp in my younger years engaging
in practices that quiet the mind and
open the heart has become far more
rewarding I find myself drawn to the
Stillness of a quiet morning the beauty
of a sunset or the simple Act of
breathing deeply and being present in
the moment these experiences remind me
of the vastness of life and the
interconnectedness of
everything letting go of masturbation
has also allowed me to approach intimacy
both with myself and others in a new way
it's no longer about physical release
but about cultivating a sense of
wholeness there's a spiritual element to
this a feeling that I am more than just
my body and its desires by stepping away
from Habits that tether me to the
Physical Realm I've felt a greater sense
of freedom and expansion it's as if I've
made room for something more profound
something that feeds my soul rather than
just my
senses this spiritual perspective isn't
tied to any particular religion or
doctrine it's a deeply personal
Journey it's about seeking meaning
finding peace and connecting with the
essence of life itself for me this
journey has brought a sense of joy and
contentment that I never imagined
possible it's a a reminder that as we
age we have the opportunity to grow not
just in wisdom but in spirit embracing a
deeper understanding of ourselves and
the world around us five the joy of
Letting
Go one of the greatest lessons I've
learned in my 70s is the profound joy
that comes from letting go this phase of
life is often marked by a process of
release letting go of possessions
expectations relationships that no
longer serve us and even habits that
once felt essential for me stepping away
from masturbation has been part of this
broader Journey a conscious choice to
simplify my life and focus on what truly
matters Letting Go isn't always easy it
requires us to confront our attachments
to ask ourselves why we hold on to
certain things and to trust that
releasing them will create space for
something better in my case masturb was
never an obsession or a burden but it
was a habit a pattern of behavior that I
carried with me for decades without
questioning As I Grew Older I began to
see it as something that no longer
aligned with the person I was becoming
letting it go felt like shedding a layer
of my old self making room for a lighter
Freer version of
me what surprised me most about this
process was the sense of Liberation it
brought by letting go of this habit I
discovered a newfound CLA CL it and
focus my Energy felt more centered my
mind more at peace I no longer felt tied
to routines that didn't serve a deeper
purpose instead I found myself more
present in the moment more attuned to
The Simple Pleasures of Life a morning
cup of coffee the laughter of my
grandchildren the feeling of the sun on
my
face this act of Letting Go has also
taught me an important truth we are not
defined by our habits as we age we have
the opportunity to redefine ourselves to
choose what we carry forward and what we
leave behind for me this has been a
process of aligning my actions with my
values of focusing on what brings me joy
and fulfillment rather than what feels
familiar or routine it's about living
intentionally making choices that
reflect the person I want to
be the joy of Letting Go isn't just
about releasing the past it's about
embracing the present it's about
recognizing that we don't need to cling
to every aspect of who we were in order
to honor our journey by letting go we
make space for growth for Discovery and
for the kind of contentment that comes
from living
authentically at 70 I feel a deep sense
of gratitude for this process it's
taught me that life isn't about holding
on to everything but about knowing what
to release it's about trusting that in
letting go we're not losing anything
we're simply making room for what truly
matters this isn't just a lesson about
masturbation or any single habit it's a
lesson about life itself about finding
the courage to embrace change and the
wisdom to know when to let go six
cultural and generational
perspectives growing up in the mid2 to
Century I experienced a culture shaped
by values that now feel like Whispers
From Another
World back then topics like sex intimacy
and especially masturbation were rarely
discussed cloaked in silence or awkward
avoidance it wasn't just my family or my
community it was the tenor of the times
discussions about private Acts were
considered taboo reserved for hush tones
or not at all and while Society has
evolved dramatically since those years I
found that those early cultural imprints
still linger Within Me shaping how I see
myself my body and my choices even at
70 this isn't about shame or repression
on the contrary I see the values of
moderation and privacy that I was raised
with as formative shaping my
understanding of boundaries and respect
both for myself and others however I've
also had to unlearn certain attitudes
over the years replacing outdated
beliefs with a more compassionate open
understanding of intimacy and self-care
even as those early lessons have
softened the cultural context of my
youth has left a lasting imprint on how
I navigate these topics and that's
something I've come to accept as part of
who I
am when I think about masturbation I
don't view it as good or bad but I do
see it as deeply personal an act
influenced not only by our individual
needs but also by the cultural lens
through which we've grown up for someone
like me raised in a time when personal
desires were seldom openly discussed
there's a certain sense of restraint
that comes naturally it's not a denial
of pleasure but a reflection of how I've
come to prioritize other parts of life
connection spirituality and the quiet
joys of presence this cultural backdrop
has shaped my relationship with my body
my habits and my view of what truly
matters as I grow
older letting go of masturbation at this
stage of life feels in part like a
return to those early values a quiet
reflective approach to the physical self
it feels like a way to honor the idea of
moderation that was so deeply ingrained
in me while balancing it with the
emotional and spiritual wisdom I've
gained through the years it's not about
adhering to outdated Notions but about
finding Harmony between the values of my
past and the realities of who I am today
in this way my decision to stop
masturbating feels less like a
restriction and more like a Natural
Evolution one influenced by both
personal growth and the cultural threads
that have shaped me seven encouraging
open
dialogue one of the most surprising
aspects of age is the courage it brings
at 70 I feel a freedom to speak openly
about things I might have avoided
discussing in earlier years there's a
Clarity that comes with age a sense that
the judgments of others matter far less
than the opportunity to connect to share
and to learn from one another this
openness is what inspired me to reflect
on my decision to stop masturbating not
as a way to impose my choices on others
but as an invitation to dialogue to
explore a topic that many still shy away
from
discussing for much of my life I believe
that topics like this were Best Kept
private it wasn't just a personal belief
it was a reflection of the culture I
grew up in where modesty and discretion
were valued but as I've aged I've come
to see the power of honest conversation
particularly about subjects that touch
on intimacy aging and the way our
relationships with our bodies change
over time these are Universal
experiences yet so often we navigate
them in isolation believing that our
struggles or choices are ours
Alone by sharing my story I hope to
challenge that sense of isolation my
decision to stop masturbating is just
one aspect of a much larger Journey a
journey of understanding myself letting
go of what no longer serves me in
embracing the changes that come with
aging it's a deeply personal choice one
that may resonate with some and not with
others and that's okay what matters most
is that we create space for these
conversations space to explore what
feels right for each of us without fear
of judgment or
shame for many of us in our later years
there's a temptation to stay silent
about these topics to assume that no one
else is grappling with similar thoughts
or decisions but the truth is we all
face changes is physical emotional and
spiritual as we age these changes are
worth talking about not just for our own
understanding but to help others feel
less Alone by opening up about my own
experiences I hope to encourage others
to reflect on their own habits
priorities and the ways in which they
engage with themselves and the world
around
them this isn't about advocating for One
path or another whether someone chooses
to continue masturbating or not is
entirely personal shaped by their own
own needs values and
circumstances my story is simply one
perspective one voice in a larger
conversation about how we navigate the
complexities of aging and intimacy what
I've learned is that there's power in
vulnerability in admitting that we're
all figuring it out as we go it's in
this openness that we find connection
understanding and maybe even a bit of
Peace as I reflect on this journey I
feel a Prof sense of gratitude for the
lessons I've learned along the way life
at 70 is full of challenges and joys of
Letting Go and embracing New Beginnings
my choice to stop masturbating is just
one small piece of this larger puzzle a
decision rooted in the values
Reflections and experiences that have
shaped me by sharing this piece of my
story I hope to spark conversations that
bring us closer together reminding us
all that we're not alone on this path
eight finding fulfillment in new
ways as I've grown older I've discovered
that fulfillment takes on a different
shape more expansive more textured and
certainly more meaningful than I ever
imagined in my younger years at 70 my
life no longer revolves around the
fleeting Pleasures or impulses that once
seemed so essential instead I found
myself drawn to quieter richer
experiences the kind that leave a deeper
imprint on the Soul this shift has been
gradual but transformative redefining
how I approach Joy connection and even
myself when I stopped masturbating it
wasn't about denying myself pleasure it
was about creating space for something
more profound I began to notice how
moments of Stillness held Treasures I
had previously overlooked sitting in my
garden as the sun dips below the Horizon
I feel a calm that resonates in ways
physical release never could in the
laughter of my grandchildren or the
quiet strength of my partner's presence
I found a warmth and a joy that lingers
far beyond the moment these experiences
aren't just fulfilling they're life
affirming the beauty of finding
fulfillment in new ways is that it often
surprises
you Hobbies I never had time for in my
younger years painting reading for hours
writing letters to Old Friends Have
Become sources of immense Joy
volunteering has brought me a sense of
purpose I didn't realize I was missing
even the simple Act of learning
something new like trying my hand at
baking or picking up a new language
fills my days with a sense of
accomplishment and
wonder what I've come to understand is
that fulfillment isn't about the
intensity of the experience but the
depth masturbation while a natural and
often positive act offered only fleeting
s satisfaction the activities I now
devote myself to whether creative social
or reflective bring a sense of meaning
that grows over time they connect me to
others to the world around me and to
myself in ways that are enduring and
transformative letting go of old habits
and embracing new sources of fulfillment
has also taught me an important lesson
about presence there's a richness to
living fully in each moment to savoring
the texture of life rather than rushing
through it this awareness didn't come
easily or quickly it's something I've
cultivated over years of reflection and
experience and it's in this mindfulness
that I've found the truest sense of
Joy final thoughts it's about what feels
right for
you at the end of the day the decision
to masturbate or not comes down to
personal choice
for me stepping away from this habit has
been part of a broader journey of
self-discovery and growth it's not about
denying pleasure but about aligning my
actions with what feels right for me at
this stage of
life if you're reading this and feeling
curious or contemplative I encourage you
to take the time to reflect on your own
habits whether you choose to continue or
not know that there's no right or wrong
answer only what's right for you like
life after 70 is about embracing the
freedom to live authentically whatever
that may look
like these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms