I'm 70 five things I did to stop wasting
my evenings after
work at 70 I've come to appreciate that
time is the most precious resource we
have after retiring from my primary
career I decided to take on some light
work to keep my mind sharp and stay
active but something wasn't sitting
right with me I'd finish work for the
day and the evenings would slip through
my fingers I'd tell myself I deserved a
little rest which I did
but that rest often turned into hours of
watching TV mindlessly scrolling on my
tablet or just sitting in
silence eventually I realized that I
wasn't really living in those hours so I
made changes five of them to be exact
that helped me reclaim my evenings and
with them a sense of purpose and
fulfillment if you're in your golden
years like me I hope these ideas inspire
you to use your evenings for what truly
matters to you if you enjoyed this video
give it a thumbs up don't forget to
subscribe and turn on notifications so
you never miss an update one reframe
your mindset it's never too late to do
it
tired as I've grown older I've learned
that life doesn't pause to wait for the
perfect moment the perfect mood or even
the perfect energy level for years I
believed that in order to take action I
needed to feel ready rested and
motivated
but as the days turned into months and
the months into years I began to realize
how much time I'd allowed to slip away
waiting for that elusive sense of
Readiness at 70 I've come to understand
that if I want to make the most of the
precious time I have left I need to let
go of the belief that action depends on
feeling
prepared one of the most powerful
lessons I've learned is this tiredness
doesn't mean I can't take action it
simply means I'll do it tired it's a
shift in mindset that has profoundly
changed how I approach my evenings and
my life there's a Temptation especially
as we age to tell ourselves we've earned
the right to rest and we absolutely have
but there's a difference between rest
that rejuvenates and rest that becomes
an excuse to disengage I realized I was
often choosing the latter letting
fatigue become a reason to put off
meaningful activities and the more I
allowed that pattern to take hold the
more more it became my
default the Breakthrough came when I
started reflecting on my past I thought
about all the times I'd done things
tired working late nights to support my
family staying up with a sick child or
pushing through long days to help a
friend those moments though exhausting
were often the most rewarding they were
evidence that I could act even when I
didn't feel like it and that the
satisfaction of accomplishing something
meaningful far outweighs the temporary
discomfort of
fatigue I began applying this principle
to my evenings instead of sitting down
after work and telling myself I'd tackle
a task or hobby later I'd say I'm tired
but I'll do it
anyway some nights it was as simple as
writing in my journal or organizing old
photographs other nights I'd spend 20
minutes working on a new skill or
calling a friend I hadn't spoken to in
years these weren't mental efforts but
they were deliberate acts of Engagement
that made my evenings feel
purposeful what I discovered is that
action often creates its own energy the
act of doing even when I didn't feel
like it brought a sense of
accomplishment that lifted my spirits
and gave me a second wi each time I
chose to take action despite my
tiredness I was building a new kind of
confidence it was a quiet assurance that
I was still capable of living fully even
when the days demands had left me
weary this mindset shift wasn't just
about productivity it was about
reclaiming a sense of agency over my
time it reminded me that I'm still in
control of how I spend my life even in
my later years tiredness I've realized
is simply a state of being not a barrier
by acknowledging it without letting it
dictate my choices I've open the door to
a more fulfilling and intentional way of
living there's a profound freedom in
letting go of the need to feel ready
before taking action it's a reminder
that life is happening now in this
moment and that each small act no matter
how tired we feel contributes to the
tapestry of a well lived life at 70 I
know there will always be days when
fatigue sets in but instead of waiting
for the perfect moment I choose to act
to create and to live in the moment I'm
given and that choice I found makes all
the
difference two declutter your evenings
with simple
routines as I reflect on the rhythm of
my days I've come to understand that
clutter isn't just something that lives
in our physical spaces it lives in our
time as well for much of my life my
evenings were a tangle of small nagging
tasks that seem to pile up endlessly the
bills to pay emails to respond to the LA
waiting to be folded it all seemed to
demand my attention the moment I thought
I could finally relax and yet despite
spending countless hours juggling these
tasks I never felt like I was making
meaning meaningful progress my evenings
felt fragmented and my time felt
stolen the Turning Point came when I
realized that my evenings didn't have to
be this way I could declutter them not
by her be ignoring the responsibilities
that needed my attention but by you know
or organizing them more thoughtfully it
began with a single powerful question
what if I could free my evenings from
the weight of the daytoday the answer
wasn't to do more but to do
smarter the first step was identifying
the repetitive tasks that were draining
my evenings these were the life admin
tasks paying bills scheduling
appointments planning meals and handling
household chores while each task seemed
small on its own together they consumed
a significant ific portion of my time
and energy so I decided to consolidate
them into one dedicated block of time
Sunday afternoons became my reset time
for an hour or two I tackled all the
little tasks that would otherwise spill
into my
week by the time Monday rolled around my
mind felt clearer and my evenings were
noticeably
lighter meal planning was one of the
most transformative changes I made
instead of cooking from scratch every
night I began prepping meals on Sundays
it was a simple adjustment chopping
vegetables portioning ingredients and
preparing a few ready to eat options but
it saved me hours during the week on
busy evenings I no longer had to choose
between cooking and doing something I
loved dinner was already handled and I
had time to read call a friend or take a
walk
instead another change was learning to
embrace the idea of good enough for much
of my life I'd been a perfectionist
believing that every task had to be done
just so but at 70 I've realized that
life isn't about perfecting the little
things it's about finding joy in the big
ones that meant letting go of the need
to fold every towel perfectly or respond
to every email immediately by setting
realistic standards for myself I freed
up not just time but also mental
energy decluttering my evenings also
meant decluttering my mindset I began to
see my time as a precious Resource One
that deserved to be spent with intention
instead of letting my evenings be
dictated by what felt urgent I started
asking myself what feels important the
answer wasn't always dramatic sometimes
it was as simple as sitting quietly with
a cup of tea watching the sunset or
spending time with my grandchildren but
by prioritizing What mattered most I
found that my evenings felt Fuller even
if I was doing
less the beauty of these small changes
is that they've given me back a sense of
control over my time I no longer feel
like my evenings are slipping away into
the chaos of Unfinished tasks instead
they've become a space of calm a time
for reflection connection and
creativity and the most surprising part
by organizing my responsibilities more
efficiently I've discovered that I
actually have more time for the things
that bring me
joy at this stage of life I've learned
that Simplicity is a gift decluttering
my evenings wasn't about eliminating
responsibilities but about creating room
for what truly Matters by organizing my
time with care and intention I've
reclaimed my evenings as a space for
living not just existing and that I
found is the heart of a life well-
lived three avoid the couch
trap for years the couch was my evening
Sanctuary a soft inviting space that
seemed to beckon me at the end of a long
day it whispered Promises of rest and
relaxation a chance to unwind and
recover i' tell myself I'll just sit for
a moment but that moment would stretch
into hours the television would flicker
in the background often showing programs
I wasn't even paying attention to while
I scrolled through my phone or simply
let the time drift by I thought I was
resting but what I was really doing was
wasting my evenings letting them vanish
Into The Ether without purpose or
meaning the couch wasn't the problem it
was my relationship with it I had let it
become the default the destination that
required no thought or effort and as
comforting as it was in the moment it
left me feeling empty afterward as if
the day had ended without any sense of
fulfillment I realized that the couch
had become a trap not because it offered
Comfort but because it kept me from
living
fully the question wasn't whether I
deserved to rest of course I did the
question was whether I wanted to spend
the last hours of my day passively or
purposefully the first step to Breaking
Free from the couch trap was recognizing
its pull and making a conscious decision
to change my evening room
I began with a simple strategy instead
of going straight to the couch when I
came home I would redirect myself to
another activity sometimes it was a
small task like watering my plants or
tidying the kitchen other times it was
something more deliberate like setting
out my materials for a craft project or
writing a note to a friend the key was
to create a sense of momentum just
enough to keep me from sinking into the
couch without a plan
I also discovered the power of changing
my environment instead of watching TV in
the living room I choose a different
space for evening activities if I wanted
to read I'd settle into a chair by the
window with a good book and a warm cup
of tea if I wanted to work on a puzzle
or write in my journal I'd sit at the
dining table these small shifts in
location help me break the association
between the couch and my default evening
routine they gave me the freedom to
approach my evenings with intention
rather than letting them be dictated by
habit planning ahead became another
vital tool before the day ended I'd
think about one thing I wanted to do
that evening something small but
meaningful it could be as simple as
calling a friend practicing a hobby or
taking a short walk after dinner knowing
I had a plan helped me resist the pull
of the couch because I had something to
look forward to something that felt
purposeful
what surprised me most was how quickly
these changes began to transform my
evenings by choosing to engage in even
the smallest of activities I found
myself feeling more energized and
fulfilled the hours that once
disappeared into mindless distraction
were now filled with moments of joy and
connection and on the nights when I did
choose to relax on the couch it felt
intentional a reward rather than a
default the couch trap isn't about
avoiding rest it's it's about reclaiming
your evenings as a time to live
intentionally whether it's engaging in a
hobby spending time with loved ones or
simply sitting quietly with your
thoughts the goal is to make those hours
matter at 70 I've learned that every
evening is an opportunity not just to
rest but to reflect to create and to
savor the life I've worked so hard to
build by stepping away from the Couch's
pole and stepping into the possibilities
of the evening I found a deeper sense of
purpose and fulfillment in the time I
have
left four embrace the quiet of morning
hours as the years pass I've grown to
treasure the early morning hours more
than ever before there's something
almost sacred about the quiet Stillness
that blankets the world at dawn the air
feels fresher the light softer and time
itself seems to slow
down it's a space where the noise of
life hasn't yet intruded and I found
that these moments are some of the most
valuable in my
day for much of my life I saw mornings
as something to rush through when I was
working full-time mornings were a flurry
of activity getting ready eating
breakfast and heading out the door even
after stepping into a lighter schedule
in retirement I still carried the habit
of reserving my energy for later in the
day I thought evenings were my time to
unwind and be productive but what I
didn't realize was that my evenings were
already compromised by the the time the
sun set I was often too tired to focus
too distracted to engage fully and too
tempted to let the hours drift by
without
meaning then one day almost by accident
I discovered the power of the morning I
had woken up unusually early and found
myself sitting by the window with a cup
of tea watching the world awaken the
calm I felt in that moment stayed with
me throughout the
day inspired by this I decided to try
using my mornings more intentionally
instead of saving my energy for the
evening I began to devote those early
hours to the things that mattered
most the shift was subtle at first but
quickly
transformative I started waking up 30
minutes earlier than usual not to tackle
chores or obligations but to nurture
myself I'd sit quietly in journal
letting my thoughts spill out onto the
page on other mornings I'd read a book
I'd been meaning to finish or practice a
hobby like watercolor painting sometimes
I'd simply meditate focusing on my
breath and the peace around
me what struck me was how much I could
accomplish in those uninterrupted
moments without the distractions of
phone calls emails or daily
responsibilities my mind felt sharper
and more focused even just 20 or 30
minutes in the morning seem to stretch
further than
hours spent trying to be productive in
the evening I began to realize that not
all hours are created equal morning
hours when the mind is fresh and the
world is quiet are far more valuable
than those at the end of the day when
energy is low and distractions abound
this newfound routine had an unexpected
ripple effect on my evenings by
completing something meaningful you in
the morning I felt less pressure to do
it all after work or throughout the day
my evenings became a time to relax and
enjoy without guilt knowing I'd already
made progress on what truly mattered
embracing morning hours also deepen my
connection with myself there's a sense
of clarity that comes in the early hours
a chance to reflect on life without the
noise of the outside world I found
myself feeling more grateful more
grounded and more intentional about how
I spent my time
overall if there's one thing I've
learned from this it's that mornings are
a gift a chance to start the day with
purpose and presence it's easy to think
that evenings are the best time for
personal growth or meaning meaningful
activities but the truth is our energy
isn't infinite by using the quiet power
of the morning I've reclaimed my
evenings as a time for rest connection
and peace and I've created a balance
that feels right for this stage of
life no matter where you are in your
journey it's never too late to embrace
the morning you don't need hours of time
or a long to-do list even a few moments
of quiet intention can change the rhythm
of your day and in turn your
life five prioritize your health and
well-being as I've grown older I've come
to understand that the foundation for a
meaningful and fulfilling life is good
health it may sound simple even obvious
but in practice it's it's easy to let
Health take a backseat to other
priorities for much of my life I did
just that pushing through exhaustion
skipping meals in sacrificing sleep to
meet obligations but over time I began
to see the toll it took not just on my
body but on my spirit and now at 70 I've
realized that without Health both
physical and mental our capacity to
truly live
diminishes this realization hit me one
evening after a particularly long day I
was drained yet Restless unable to focus
on anything that bring me
joy my energy was gone my patience was
thin and even the simplest tasks felt
overwhelming that night I lay awake
wondering why I couldn't seem to reclaim
my evenings the answer was clear I
wasn't taking care of myself how could I
expect to feel motivated or engaged when
I wasn't giving my body and mind what
they needed to
thrive the first thing I did was address
my sleep for years I had survived on six
hours a night sometimes less thinking I
could power through with coffee and
Willow but sleep isn't just a luxury
it's essential I began prioritizing 7 n
hours of rest each night setting a
consistent bedtime and creating a
calming evening routine I stopped
looking at screens an hour before bed
and replaced them with a good book or
soft music the difference was profound
with better sleep I woke up feeling more
refreshed and capable ready to to face
the day and Savor my
evenings next I turned my attention to
exercise staying active doesn't have to
mean intense workouts or hours at the
gym for me it's as simple as taking a
20-minute walk after dinner stretching
in the morning or dancing to my favorite
music in the living room movement has
become my way of honoring what my body
can still do rather than focusing on its
limitations it clears my mind lifts my
mood and gives me the energy to engage
with life more
fully nutrition was another area I began
to rethink I used to reach for
convenience processed snacks sugary
treats quick fixes that filled me up but
left me feeling sluggish now I make an
effort to nourish myself with Wholesome
foods fresh vegetables fruits lean
proteins and whole grains it's not about
perfection it's about balance and I've
discovered that when I eat well my
energy is steadier my mind sharper and
my evenings more
enjoyable beyond the physical I also
learn to nurture my mental health life
at 70 comes with its share of Joys and
challenges grandchildren friendships
memories of loved ones lost and the
inevitable changes that come with age
taking time for mindfulness and
gratitude has been transformative
whether it's a few minutes of meditation
Journal ing my thoughts or simply
sitting quietly and appreciating the
present moment these practices ground me
they remind me that every day is a gift
and every evening is an opportunity to
create
meaning caring for my health has become
more than just a way to feel better it's
a way to live better when I prioritize
my well-being I'm able to show up for
the people and activities I love with
more energy and enthusiasm my evenings
once a time of exhaustion and
disconnection are now moments of Joy
creativity and
connection the truth is investing in
your health is the most compassionate
thing you can do for yourself it's not
about perfection or strict rules it's
about listening to your body and giving
it what it needs to support the life you
want to live at 70 I've learned that a
healthy Foundation isn't just the key to
reclaiming your evenings it's the key to
reclaiming your
life six cultivate connection make time
for people who
matter as the years pass I've realized
that one of life's greatest Joys perhaps
its most profound is the connection we
share with others yet in the rush of
daily life it's so easy to let those
connections Fade Into the background our
evenings often framed as downtime can
quickly turn into time spent alone
scrolling through screens or getting
lost in solitary
distractions but I've learned that these
hours offer a precious opportunity
chance to deepen our relationships
Foster new ones and cherish the bonds
that it starts with a simple but
transformative question who in my life
would I love to hear from or spend time
with right now for me the answer was
often family and friends I hadn't spoken
to in weeks sometimes
months I began using my evenings to
reconnect reaching out with a phone call
or even an old-fashioned letter a short
conversation with a loved one whether
reminiscing about shared memories are
simply catching up reminded me of how
much warmth and vitality these moments
of connection
bring but cultivating connection isn't
limited to reaching out to others it's
also about being fully present when
we're with the people who matter most I
started turning off distractions during
family dinners putting my phone away
when talking with my grand children and
making a conscious effort to truly
listen these small acts of presence
turned ordinary interactions into
treasured moments enriching my evenings
and my relationships
alike one of the most meaningful
practices I've adopted is hosting small
simple Gatherings whether it's inviting
a neighbor over for tea sharing a meal
with a close friend or having my
grandchildren visit to bake cookies
these shared experiences create memories
that linger long after the evening air
ends I found that it doesn't need to be
elaborate what matters is the time and
care we give to one
another I've also embraced the
importance of
community in my later years I've joined
groups that bring people together
whether it's a local book club a
gardening group or a church Community
these connections have not only enriched
my evenings but also reminded me that
we're never too old to make new friends
and build meaningful
relationships what I've discovered is
this connection isn't just about filling
time it's about filling the heart when I
invest my evenings in the people I care
about I find a deep sense of purpose and
belonging that no solitary activity can
replace it's a reminder that the
relationships we nurture are among
life's most precious treasures and the
time we spend with others is never
wasted at 70 I've learned that
cultivating connection isn't just a way
to reclaim your evenings it's a way to
reclaim your life these moments of love
laughter and shared understanding remind
us of what truly matters not the hours
we count but the moments we share
whether it's a phone call a visit or
simply sitting beside someone in quiet
companionship each Act of connection is
a gift to ourselves and to those we hold
dear
embracing the gift of
evenings at 70 I've come to understand
that our evenings hold a quiet
unassuming power they're the bookends of
our days the moments where we can choose
to reflect connect and grow or let time
slip through our fingers the years have
taught me that life doesn't offer
endless opportunities in every choice we
make car's weight each evening is a
reminder that while the past may be
behind us the future uncertain the
present is still ours to
shape reclaiming my evenings wasn't
about squeezing productivity out of
every hour or filling my time with tasks
for the sake of being busy it was about
living with intention honoring the gift
of time and recognizing that even the
smallest acts reading a book writing a
letter or simply sitting in quiet
gratitude can create meaning these
moments though small are what add
richness to our lives
what I've discovered is that purpose
doesn't diminish with age it evolves
it's no longer about building or
achieving but about savoring and sharing
it's about recognizing that the way we
spend our evenings no matter how simple
reflects the way we choose to live when
I stopped letting my evenings Pass Me By
I Found A Renewed sense of fulfillment a
reminder that life's beauty lies in its
quiet ordinary moments
so to anyone reading this especially
those in your golden years I offer this
reminder your time is still your own
evenings are not just the end of the day
they are a chance to create to connect
to dream and to celebrate the life
you've built whether it's through small
routines meaningful conversations or
simply taking a moment to be present you
can reclaim these hours and fill them
with the things that matter most to you
at this stage of life it's easy to feel
as though the best years are behind us
but I found that the opposite is true
the years ahead hold the potential for
the deepest most meaningful experiences
if only we choose to embrace them the
Sun May set each evening but with it
comes the promise of a new day a new
moment and a new opportunity to live
with intention
make your evenings count not because
time is fleeting but because every
moment we're given is a chance to live
fully and meaningfully this I believe is
the true gift of Aging the wisdom to see
the value in each moment and the courage
to make it our
own these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and authentically now
I'd love to hear from you take a moment
to reflect reflect and share one thing
you've learned and plan to apply in your
own life let's support each other on
this journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms