I'm
80 I'm careful who I led into my home
here's
why as someone who's lived through eight
Decades of life I've seen the world
change in countless ways some of these
changes have been wonderful
technological advances societal progress
in seeing my family grow but alongside
the good there have always been
challenges including learning who I can
truly trust at my age I've learned that
being cautious about who you allow into
your home is not just common sense it's
a necessary
Safeguard whether it's about protecting
your physical space your emotional
well-being or your personal business
there's wisdom in being careful let me
share a few stories lessons and
practical advice that have shaped this
belief and helped me protect myself and
my home if you enjoyed this video give
it a thumbs up don't forget to subscribe
and turn on notifications so you never
miss
update one the home is your
Sanctuary your home is more than Walls
Furniture in a roof overhead it's the
very heart of your life story it's where
your happiest memories are tucked away
where you've laughed with loved ones
where you've weathered storms both
literal and emotional it holds the
Echoes of family dinners The Whispers of
bedtime stories and the soft murmurs of
prayers said in
private your home is sacred it is your
retreat from the chaos of the world your
Safe Harbor where you can be entirely
yourself unguarded and at peace allowing
someone into that space isn't just about
opening a door it's about granting them
access to the life you've built Brick by
Brick Moment by moment every time
someone steps over that threshold they
bring with them their energy their
intentions and their presence and not
all of these are benign some come with
warmth and love but others even if they
don't realize it themselves bring Envy
judgment or even
harm I once heard someone describe their
home as a mirror of their soul it
resonated deeply with me think about it
when someone enters your home they're
stepping into a reflection of who you
are the pictures on your walls the books
on your shelves the small tokens of
travel or family heirlooms they all tell
a story about you
and while sharing that story can be a
beautiful thing it should only be shared
with those who will treat it with the
care it
deserves unfortunately not everyone
values that sacredness some see your
Sanctuary not as a place to be respected
but as a space to be exploited they
don't see the memories you've woven into
its fabric they see an opportunity maybe
it's what you have a comfortable chair a
valuable possession or even the
appearance of an easy life that draws
them in or perhaps it's simply the
knowledge that you've let your guard
down trusting them with something so
personal that trust is precious and when
it's misplaced the harm runs
deep I've had experiences where I
allowed people into my home only to
realize later that their intentions were
not as pure as they seemed they admired
too much asked too many questions and
lingered too long with their eyes
scanning my belonging ings rather than
meeting my
gaze it's a strange and unsettling
feeling to realize that someone who
Smiles warmly at you might be mentally
calculating the value of what you own or
Worse plotting ways to undermine
you your Sanctuary deserves more than
that it deserves protection not just
physical locks on the doors or cameras
on the porch though those are important
but boundaries that preserve its peace
saying no to someone entering your home
isn't an act of hostility it's an act of
self-preservation your Sanctuary isn't
just a space it's the container for your
peace your memories and your
well-being there's a particular
Stillness to a home that's been guarded
carefully a Stillness that feels like
peace it's the feeling of walking into a
space where nothing but love and respect
has been allowed to enter it's the
warmth of knowing that your most
vulnerable self is safe cradled by walls
that have witnessed your journey and
protected you through it
all so be careful be selective treat
your Sanctuary with the same reverence
that you treat your heart because in
many ways they are one and the same only
those who truly honor you deserve to
step
inside two kindness is a gift not an
invitation kindness
is one of life's most profound gifts it
has the power to heal wounds Bridge
divides and create connections that last
a lifetime as we age kindness often
becomes a guiding principle a way to
navigate the world with Grace and
compassion but kindness as beautiful as
it is must be offered with discernment
not everyone who receives your kindness
will honor it for some it becomes an
opportunity to take more than what's
offered leaving you with less than you
deserve I've learned this lesson the
hard way in my earlier years I believed
kindness should be extended to all
without hesitation and for many years I
lived by that philosophy But as time
went on I began to see how some people
misinterpreted kindness as an open
invitation a weakness to exploit rather
than a virtue to cherish it's a painful
realization but an important one
kindness when given without
boundaries there was a time time when a
handyman came to my home to fix a minor
repair he seemed Pleasant and helpful
but as the day went on I noticed he
wasn't just focused on the task at hand
he was asking questions that felt too
personal how long I'd lived alone what I
did with my time and whether I had
family
nearby at first I brushed it off
thinking he was just being friendly but
then I noticed his eyes wandering around
my home lingering too long on certain
items the repair was completed but
something felt
unsettled days later I received an
unexpected knock at the door it was the
same man this time asking if he could
come back to check on the
work I politely declined but his
persistence left me uneasy I couldn't
help but wonder if my kindness my
willingness to welcome him into my space
had sent the wrong message that
experience stayed with me a reminder
that while kindness is powerful it must
also be paired with
caution kindness should never require
you to sacrifice your sense of safety or
well-being it is a gift you give not a
debt you owe and when it's met with
respect and gratitude it can transform
relationships and strengthen connections
but when it's met with entitlement or
manipulation it's okay to pull back and
protect yourself you are not unkind for
setting boundaries you are
wise one of the greatest challenges as
we age is learning how to balance
kindness with
self-preservation we've been taught to
be generous to open our hearts and our
homes and to treat others as we wish to
be treated these are noble principles
but they don't mean you must ignore red
flags or put yourself In Harm's Way for
the sake of appearing kind true kindness
begins with kindness to
yourself when you guard your kindness
with care it becomes even more valuable
it's not something to be taken for
granted or used against you it's a
reflection of your heart a treasure that
should be shared only with those who
understand its worth remember kindness
is not about letting everyone in it's
about choosing wisely who you allow to
stay three people can wear
masks in life we often find ourselves
surrounded by people who seem kind
trustworthy and genuine they smile warm
speak gently and offer help when we
least expect it but as I've grown older
I've learned that not everyone who
appears friendly has good intentions
some people wear masks masks of kindness
generosity or concern to hide their true
motives it's a hard truth to accept but
understanding it can save you from
heartbreak and
betrayal there was a time when I met
someone who seemed to embody the very
essence of a good neighbor she was
always ready with a smile and quick to
ask how I was doing at first I felt
lucky to have someone so thoughtful
nearby she would stop by with small
gifts a basket of fruit a bouquet of
flowers and she always seemed genuinely
interested in my well-being I trusted
her I invited her into my home and soon
enough she became a regular
visitor but over time I began to notice
subtle changes in her behavior her
questions became more probing do you get
help managing your
finances who checks on you during the
week where do you keep your important
documents at first I didn't think much
of it I thought she was just being
conversational but something didn't sit
right with me her questions felt too
specific as though she was gathering
information rather than simply
chatting the day my suspicions were
confirmed still stings she had offered
to help me organize some papers in my
study I thought it was a kind gesture
and allowed her to assist but a few days
later I realized something was missing a
small but important piece of jewelry I
had kept in my desk drawer it wasn't
valuable to anyone but me but its
disappearance left me shaken I couldn't
prove she had taken it but the timing
was too coincidental it felt like a
betrayal and the worst part was knowing
I had let it happen by trusting too
easily this experience taught me a
valuable lesson people can hide their
true selves behind a mask of kindness
sometimes these masks slip quickly
revealing their intentions other times
it takes months or even years to see the
truth but eventually patterns emerge and
if you pay attention you'll notice the
cracks these masks are often worn by
those who Envy what you have whether
it's your possessions your peace of mind
or even your Independence they may seem
supportive but deep down they're
searching for ways to take advantage of
your trust that's why it's so important
to be Discerning even when someone seems
friendly and well-meaning
trust is not something to be given
lightly it must be earned through
consistent actions over
time it doesn't make you cold or unkind
to question question someone's
intentions it makes you wise at this
stage in life you've seen enough of the
world to know that appearances can be
deceiving the truth is genuine people
don't mind proving themselves they don't
rush into your life nor do they pry into
your personal matters they respect your
boundaries and earn your trust by
showing not just saying that they
care so the next time someone new comes
into your life take a step back and
observe do their words match their
actions are they truly there to support
you or are they fishing for
information do they respect your space
or do they subtly push boundaries trust
your instincts if something feels off it
probably
is the masks people wear can be
convincing but they're not impenetrable
over time their true intentions will
reveal themselves and when they do
you'll be glad you took the time to see
beyond the surface protect your home
your peace and your heart you deserve to
be surrounded by those who love you for
who you are not what they can take from
you four scammers Target
seniors as the years go by we like to
believe that the world grows Kinder with
us but experience has shown me that
aging often brings new challenges
especially when it comes to being
targeted by those who see our wisdom and
resources as vulnerabilities to
exploit scammers know this all too well
and they pray on seniors with carefully
crafted lies hoping to take advantage of
our Good Will and trusting
nature I remember one incident that
still sends chills down my spine a man
knocked on my door one morning wearing a
polished uniform and carrying a
clipboard he claimed to be collecting
donations for a veterans charity and
even handed me a brochure with official
looking logos and testimonials at first
glance everything seemed legitimate he
spoke with authority and kindness
sharing stories of how the donations
would help homeless veterans my heart
ACH and I reached for my
checkbook but something stopped me as he
continued to talk I noticed small
inconsistencies in his story a
hesitation when I asked about the
Charity's office location and vague
answers about how the funds would be
used my instincts kicked in and I
decided to do some
research after he left I looked up the
charity online and discovered it didn't
exist he had fabricated everything
hoping to prey on my compassion I was
grateful I hadn't handed over any money
but the experience left me
shaken scammers are clever and they know
exactly how to manipulate emotions they
might knock on your door call your phone
or send you mail that looks urgent
hoping to create a sense of pressure or
fear they often Target seniors because
they assume we're less tech-savvy or
more likely to trust authority figures
but we can outsmart them the key is to
stay vigilant and never let urgency
override
caution here's what I've
learned if something feels off trust
that feeling don't rush into decisions
especially when money or personal
information is involved take your time
to verify claims whether by researching
online calling a trusted family member
or Consulting a friend scammers thrive
on confusion and fear but they crumble
under
scrutiny remember your kindness and
generosity should be directed toward
those who genuinely deserve it not those
who manufacture lies to exploit it
protecting yourself isn't just about
safeguarding your finances it's about
preserving your peace of mind you've
worked too hard and live too long to let
a stranger take advantage of you stay
cautious stay informed
and know that it's always okay to say
no
five boundaries are
healthy if there's one thing I've
learned in my eight Decades of life it's
that setting boundaries is one of the
most important acts of self-respect you
can practice boundaries are not walls to
shut people out they are guidelines that
protect your peace and Define how others
can engage with you they allow you to
decide who enters your life your home
and your heart at this stage when peace
is more precious than ever boundaries
are not just healthy they are
essential there was a time when I
struggled with setting boundaries I
thought saying no was rude or selfish so
I often went out of my way to
accommodate others I allowed people into
my home who drained my energy shared
more of my personal life than I should
have and even endured conversations that
made me uncomfortable they all because I
didn't want to offend anyone
but over time I realized that every yes
I gave when I wanted to say no was a
small betrayal of
myself the Turning Point came when a
distant acquaintance began showing up
unannounced she would ring the doorbell
and act as though it was no big deal to
pop in just to
chat at first I welcomed her out of
politeness but her visits became more
frequent and more intrusive she would
comment on the things I owned ask Prime
questions about my family and even
suggest changes to how I lived my life I
felt uncomfortable but didn't know how
to tell her to
stop one day after she left I sat down
and thought about what it was costing me
to keep letting her in not just in terms
of time but also peace of mind I
realized that her visits Were A
disruption to My Sanctuary and that I
had every right to protect that the next
time she appeared I greeted her at the
door and gently but firmly told her that
I preferred to plan visits ahead of time
she looked surprised but she respected
it from that moment on I felt a weight
lift boundaries don't need to be harsh
or confrontational they just need to be
clear they are a way of honoring
yourself and teaching others how to
treat you whether it's deciding who
enters your home how much of your time
you give or what topics you're
comfortable discussing boundaries create
the space for you to live authentically
and peacefully they're not about
shutting people out they're about
inviting the right people
in and here's the beauty of it those who
truly care about you will respect your
boundaries they won't take offense
because they understand that boundaries
are an expression of self-love not
rejection the ones who resist they were
never meant to be in your life in the
first place remember setting boundaries
isn't about being kind it's about being
wise and at this stage in life wisdom is
your greatest Ally is your six a
historical
lesson history is often our greatest
teacher and one lesson that is stayed
with me is the story of Christopher
Columbus and his encounter with the
indigenous peoples of the Americas these
were people of extraordinary kindness
who opened their homes their land and
their hearts to strangers they offered
food food shelter and gifts to those who
arrived on their Shores asking for
nothing in return their generosity was
boundless rooted in their belief that
kindness would be met with
kindness but Columbus and his men saw
their generosity not as a gift but as an
opportunity in his journals he wrote
about how the indigenous people seemed
unaware of the value of their resources
gold spices and land instead of honoring
the kindness they were shown he saw it
as a weakness to exploit what followed
followed was a betrayal of the deepest
kind the very people who had nursed them
back to health and welcomed them as
friends were enslaved their land taken
their culture
dismantled this story though painful
carries an important lesson kindness and
openness must be balanced with
discernment not everyone who enters your
life does so with good intentions some
come not to give but to take to use your
trust and generosity for their own gain
it's a sobering reminder that while
kindness is a virtue it must be paired
with
wisdom as I reflect on this I see
parallels in our everyday lives whether
it's a neighbor who seems too interested
in your possessions a distant relative
asking for favors without offering
support or even a stranger at your door
it's important to remember that not all
intentions are pure
protecting what you've built your home
your peace your resources isn't selfish
it's
necessary history has shown us the
dangers of unchecked trust but it has
also shown us the power of resilience by
learning from the past we can protect
ourselves and our future be kind yes but
be careful open your door with caution
and never feel guilty for closing it
when something doesn't feel right after
all your Sanctuary your home your heart
your life is worth
protecting seven your circle shrinks but
becomes
stronger one of the inevitable truths of
life is that as we grow older our circle
of friends and loved ones often becomes
smaller people move away relationships
shift and sometimes we lose those
closest to
us at first first this shrinking Circle
might feel like a loss a sign that the
world is closing in but over time I've
come to see it as a gift a refinement of
the people who truly
matter in my younger years I felt the
need to maintain a wide circle of
acquaintances I was quick to trust and
eager to please always saying yes to
invitations and opening my home to
anyone who knocked but as I aged I began
to see the value of quality over
quantity not everyone deserves a seat at
your table or a key to your home true
friendship isn't about how many people
surround you it's about the depth of the
connections you
share the friends and family who remain
in my life now are the ones who've
proven their loyalty over
time these are the people who show up
not just in moments of Joy but also in
times of Sorrow they don't ask for more
than I can give and they respect my
boundaries without question with them
there's no need to wear a mask or put up
a front they accept me as I am with all
my strengths and
Imperfections what I've learned is that
a smaller Circle often means a stronger
one the people who stay are those who
truly care not about what you can offer
but about who you are they're the ones
who check in on you without being asked
who celebrate your victories and comfort
you in your struggles and because the
circle is smaller you can pour more of
your energy and love into those
relations relationships creating bonds
that are
unshakable at this stage of life there's
no room for superficial connections or
draining relationships time is precious
and so is your peace surround yourself
with those who uplift you who respect
your boundaries and who bring joy into
your life let go of anyone who brings
negativity or
drama it's not selfish it's
self-care your home home your time and
your energy are sacred protecting them
doesn't mean isolating yourself it means
choosing wisely when you focus on the
people who truly matter your circle
becomes a sanctuary of love and trust
and in that Sanctuary you'll find a
deeper sense of connection and
contentment than you ever thought
possible eight trust your
instincts over the years one of the
greatest lessons I've learned is the
importance of trusting your instincts
that small voice inside you the one that
warns you when something feels off or
urges you to take a second look it's
there for a reason as we age we
accumulate wisdom from our experiences
and our instincts are shaped by all the
things we've seen felt and survived
ignoring them can come at a great cost
while listening to them can save us from
harm I remember an instance when a young
man came to my door selling Home
Improvement Services he was polite and
well spoken and he carried brochures
that looked professional his pitch was
convincing and for a moment I considered
hiring him but something about the way
he avoided making eye contact struck me
as unusual my instincts whispered
something isn't
right I decided to ask a few questions
where's your office located do you have
references I can call he stumbled over
his answers giving vague replies that
didn't sit well with me instead of
agreeing to his Services I thanked him
politely and told him I'd think about it
later I did some research and found
multiple complaints online about his
so-called company accusing them of
taking money for work that was never
completed my instincts had been
right trusting your gut isn't always
about catching someone in a lie it's
about protecting your peace of mind
sometimes it's as simple as feeling une
easy about someone's intentions or
noticing subtle inconsistencies in their
behavior maybe it's a friend who
suddenly starts asking personal
questions they never asked before or a
neighbor who becomes overly curious
about your daily routine even if you
can't put your finger on it that feeling
in your gut is often your subconscious
picking up on things your conscious mind
hasn't yet
processed listening to your instinct
doesn't mean being paranoid or closing
yourself off from the world it means
being attuned to your surroundings and
to the people you allow into your life
it's a way of respecting the wisdom
you've earned through years of living
after all how many times have you looked
back on a situation and thought I knew
something was wrong but I ignored it as
we age we have the advantage of having
made those mistakes before and we can
use that knowledge to navigate the
present with greater
care trusting your instincts also means
being okay with saying no if someone
asked to come into your home and you
feel uneasy it's perfectly acceptable to
decline if a conversation feels too
invasive or a request seems too
demanding you have every right to set a
boundary and if someone takes offense at
your caution that says more about them
than it does about
you the beauty of trusting your
instincts is that it empowers you to
take control of your life it allows you
to make decisions based on what feels
right for you rather than what others
expect or demand in a world where not
everyone has your best interest at heart
your instincts are your greatest Ally
they are a quiet but powerful force
guiding you to protect what matters most
your home your time your peace and your
well-being at this stage in life I've
come to see my instincts as a form of
self-care they are a reminder that I've
lived long enough to know when something
doesn't feel right and that I deserve to
prioritize my safety and happiness so my
advice to anyone who has ever doubted
their gut is this listen to it trust it
honor it because more often than not
it's there to protect you and it's
rarely
wrong closing
thoughts at 80 I've learned that being
careful about who you led into your home
isn't about being paranoid it's about
being wise your home is your Sanctuary
your safe space and it deserves to be
protected whether it's a nosy neighbor a
manipulative acquaintance or even a
well-meaning but intrusive friend it's
okay to set boundaries trust takes time
to build and not everyone who Smiles at
you deserves access to your life
remember
kindness is a strength but it's also
important to be smart protect your home
protect your peace and trust your
instincts After all you've earned the
right to live your life on your terms
stay safe stay strong and stay wise
these lessons are meant to inspire you
to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these truths
if you enjoyed this video please leave a
comment with one if not feel free to
comment with zero your feedback means a
lot to us don't forget to like share and
subscribe to our YouTube channel for
more content like this thank you for
watching and here's to living life on
your own terms