the shocking reason why people in old
age tend to avoid
others when I turned 65 a profound shift
occurred in how I viewed my
relationships my time and my own peace
of mind for decades I had been the
person who showed up for everyone family
friends neighbors even casual
acquaintances I believed it was my role
to be Dependable to be there no matter
what even at the cost of my own
well-being but as the years passed I
realized something startling not every
connection is worth maintaining and not
every person deserves a space in my
life this realization is not about
bitterness or resentment it's about
wisdom it's about reaching a stage in
life where your time feels more precious
your energy feels more finite and your
peace becomes Priceless at 65 and Beyond
avoiding certain people isn't a sign of
giving up on relationships it's a choice
to protect the serenity that we've
worked so hard to
find for anyone in their Golden Years
who has felt the same this isn't
something to feel guilty about it's a
sign of growth of wisdom earned through
Decades of experience let me share why
so many of us in this season of Life
choose to step back and what it has
taught me about living fully peacefully
and
authentically if you enjoyed this video
give it a thumbs up don't forget to
subscribe and turn on notifications so
you never miss an update
one time is more precious than
ever there comes a moment in life when
you stop seeing time as something
endless something you can waste freely
without consequence when you're young
time feels abundant like an ocean that
stretches Far Beyond the Horizon you
waste it without worry on empty
conversations meaningless obligations
and relationship sh that bring you
nothing but exhaustion it isn't until
later in life when the pages of the
calendar seem to turn faster that you
begin to feel how precious every moment
truly
is at this stage time feels different it
becomes a gift not a guarantee you wake
up and realize that every day is a
chance a chance to live to love to
connect to savor the quiet Joys you once
overlooked the mornings feel sharper the
sunsets are more beautiful you sip your
coffee listening to the birds sing and
suddenly that moment feels sacred you
hold a conversation with someone who
truly matters and you find yourself
hanging on to every word cherishing the
sound of their laughter as though it
might be the last time you hear
it this awareness changes
everything you begin to guard your time
with a kind of reverence that only age
can
bring you start asking yourself the hard
questions does this bring me
joy does this add meaning to my life
life does this align with who I am
today if the answer is no you walk away
not out of spite not out of selfishness
but out of a deep respect for the
limited time you have
left when I was younger I gave my time
away carelessly I said yes to every
request showed up to every Gathering and
spent countless hours on relationships
and commitments that drained me I
stretched myself so thin trying to meet
the world's expectations that I often
felt invisible I realize now how much of
my time I allowed others to take from me
time that I can never get back but age
brings Clarity it teaches you that every
moment wasted is a moment stolen from
something more meaning
and I now choose where to spend my time
and I Choose
Wisely I spend it on people who Lift Me
Up who see me for who I am and who bring
light into my life I spend Ed on moments
of Stillness where I can reflect breathe
and simply be I no longer feel guilty
for saying no for stepping back for
choosing peace over chaos my time is my
treasure and I will not spend it
carelessly
anymore if you find yourself feeling the
same if you're noticing the weight and
value of time I want you to know it's
okay it's okay to protect your time
fiercely it's okay to choose silence
over noise Simplicity over chaos and
mean over
obligation time is not something we can
reclaim but it is something we can
honor in this season of life I wake up
every day with
gratitude I may not know how many days I
have left but I do know this I will
spend them well I will spend them loving
my family nurturing my friendships
finding joy in the smallest of moments
and living as fully as I can time time
is precious because it reminds us to be
present to pay attention and to let go
of everything that does not matter once
you learn to see time for the treasure
it is you realize that every moment
holds a beauty you may have missed
before two relationships evolve and
that's
okay there comes a point in life when we
begin to understand that relationships
are not meant to remain the same forever
when I was younger I believe that the
mark of a good person a Dependable
friend a loving family member was to
always be there I worked hard to
maintain every connection no matter the
cost I reached out to people who didn't
reach back attended Gatherings that left
me feeling empty and gave my energy to
relationships that offered little in
return back then I saw relationships as
a reflection of my worth and letting go
felt like
failure but as I've grown older I've
come to realize something profound
relationships change because we change
the people we were 10 20 or 30 years ago
are not the people we are today and
that's okay it's a natural part of life
not something to be feared or resented
some relationships are meant to last a
lifetime While others are meant to teach
us something for a season before fading
away I no longer see this as a loss but
as a part of my
growth I've learn to let go of the
relationships that no longer fit the
person I am becoming it's not about
anger blame or bitterness it's about
acceptance people change and sometimes
their paths no longer align with ours I
used to hold on too tightly trying to
force connections that had long since
lost their meaning but over time I've
come to understand that it's better to
release those ties than to let them
weigh you
down what matters most now
is the quality of the connections I
choose to keep I look for relationships
that feel mutual and effortless ones
where I can be fully myself and where
the other person values me not for what
I do but for who I am there's a quiet
joy in being with people who truly see
you who bring light into your life
instead of Darkness these relationships
don't require constant work to keep
alive they flow naturally built on
shared understanding respect and
Care letting go of certain relationships
hasn't always been easy I've spent
sleepless nights wondering if I could
have done more if I should have held on
a little longer but with time I've
realized that holding on to connections
out of guilt or obligation only causes
more harm life is too short to surround
yourself with people who drain your
spirit or make you feel small when you
release these relationships you create
space for peace for growth and for
deeper more meaning Karma we inkful
bonds today my circle is smaller but it
is richer the friends and family who
remain are the ones who truly matter the
ones who show up not out of Duty but out
of love they are the people who Lift Me
Up when life feels heavy who make me
laugh when I need it most and who simply
sit beside me in quiet companionship
these connections are precious because
they are real
if you find yourself mourning
relationships that have faded I want you
to remember this it's not a failure to
let go it's a sign that you are growing
and evolving relationships like seasons
are meant to change focus on the people
who bring you peace who make you feel
valued and seen life becomes infinitely
lighter when you let go of what no
longer serves you in doing so you open
the door to the relationship ship that
truly matter the ones that stand the
test of time and fill your heart with
joy three trust becomes more
complex trust is one of the most
delicate and precious gifts we can give
to another person when I was younger I
gave it freely believing in the goodness
of people and their intentions I wanted
to see the best in everyone to believe
that kindness would always be returned
and while this openness led to beautiful
friendships and cherish connections it
also left me vulnerable to hurt over the
years I've been let down by people I
trusted deeply friends who walked away
family members who grew distant and
people who cared more about what I could
give them than about who I
was those experiences changed me they
didn't make me bitter but they did make
me careful I learned that trust is not
something to be handed out
freely it is something to be earned
trust once broken leaves scars that take
years sometimes a lifetime to heal and
so I began to protect it more fiercely
not because I stopped believing in
people but because I started believing
in
myself one of the most important lessons
I've learned is to trust my instincts
when something doesn't feel right when a
person's words don't match their actions
or when a connection feels one-sided I
no longer dismiss those feelings I used
to second guess myself telling myself I
was overthinking or being parent
paranoid but with age comes wisdom and
I've learned to listen to that quiet
voice inside me that says this isn't
right trusting my instincts has saved me
from Pain and disappointment more times
than I can
count I've also learned to set
boundaries there was a time when I let
people take advantage of my kindness
when I allowed others to cross lines
that should never have been crossed I
stayed in relationships that felt toxic
because I thought loyalty meant enduring
everything but now I know that setting
boundaries isn't about shutting people
out it's about protecting my peace it's
about knowing my worth and refusing to
let anyone diminish
it that being said trust hasn't
disappeared from my life it has simply
become more precious I've learned to
give it gradually to those who earn it
through consistency respect and kindness
the people I trust now are the ones who
have shown me over time that they are
worthy of it they are the friends who
check in not because they want something
but because they care they are the
family members who show up not just when
life is good but when things get hard
they are the strangers whose small acts
of kindness remind me that goodness
still exists in the
world trust I found is not about being
open to everyone it's about being open
to the right people it's about about
knowing that while some will let you
down others will surprise you in the
best possible ways it's about finding a
balance between guarding your heart and
allowing yourself to
connect if you feel more cautious with
trust as you age know that you are not
alone it is not a sign of weakness it is
a sign of wisdom you have learned
through the trials of life that trust is
not something to give away lightly
you've learned that protecting your
trust is a way of honoring yourself of
valuing your peace and your
worth surround yourself with those who
show you through their actions that they
deserve your
trust and trust yourself enough to walk
away from those who don't at this stage
of life you owe it to yourself to
protect your heart to protect your peace
and to trust above all else that you are
worthy of relationships that are built
on love respect and sincerity
four Simplicity is the key to
peace as I have grown older I've
realized that the world has become
louder faster and more complicated than
it once was life seems to rush by in a
blur driven by technology endless
commitments and a constant need to be
productive people are always on the move
but rarely do they seem to be moving
toward peace it wasn't always this way
way I remember a time when life felt
simpler when families gathered naturally
without the need for planning or
reminders when neighbors were friends
and conversations were heartfelt not
hurried back then the joy of connection
was real we sat together shared stories
and laughed not because we had to but
because we wanted to I think of those
afternoons when we would sit on a porch
sipping lemonade while watching The
Children Play there was no need to check
our watches no urgy to leave life
happened slowly beautifully and we were
present for
it but now the world is different
technology has brought incredible
advancements video calls instant
messages and the ability to connect with
someone halfway across the world in
seconds I appreciate these tools they
allow me to see my grandchildren's faces
to reconnect with old friends I thought
I'd lost yet something has been lost in
the process the warmth of Simply being
together nothing can replace the
experience of sitting across from
someone hearing their laughter feeling
their presence and sharing silence that
feels comfortable not
awkward it's not just relationships that
have become complicated life itself is
noisier than ever the endless Buzz of
notifications news updates and
distractions makes it harder to hear
hear our own thoughts even when we're
alone the world feels too loud in the
rush to do more achieve more improve
ourselves we lose sight of the simple
things that bring true peace things that
cost nothing but mean
everything in this stage of my life I've
learned to step away from the noise and
embrace Simplicity I no longer feel the
need to say yes to every invitation to
fill my days with activity just to feel
productive
instead I choose to slow down I find joy
in the small often overlooked
moments sitting by a window and watching
the
rainfall taking a walk through the park
and feeling the sun on my
face reading a book in a quiet corner
where the only sound is the Turning of
pages Simplicity has become a kind of
Freedom it allows me to focus on what
truly matters meaningful conversations
authentic connections and moments of
Stillness that restore my soul I no
longer chase after things that don't
bring me peace relationships that feel
shallow obligations that feel forc or
distractions that steal my time instead
I've learned to protect the quiet spaces
in my life because it is in those spaces
that I feel most
alive there is a beauty in living simply
it strips away the unnecessary and
leaves behind only what is real what
truly
matters I no longer feel burdened by the
pressure to keep up with the world to be
everything for everyone I live with
intention and I find peace in knowing
that my days are filled with things and
people that bring me joy if you too find
the world overwhelming know that it's
okay to slow down you don't have to do
more be more or give more to prove your
worth sometimes the most fulfilling life
is the one lived simply with gratitude
and
purpose
five Solitude is a gift not
loneliness there was a time when I
feared being alone like many I equated
Solitude with loneliness a heavy aching
feeling of being disconnected from the
world I believed that to be alone was to
be unwanted unseen or
forgotten and so I filled my days with
people noise and activity hoping to
avoid the
silence but as I have grown older my
relationship with Solitude has changed
I've come to understand the Solitude and
loneliness are not the same loneliness
is a feeling of emptiness a longing for
connection that isn't there Solitude on
the other hand is a choice it is a space
we create for ourselves a refuge where
we can reflect heal and find peace it is
not something to fear it is something to
embrace in solitude I found a sense of
clarity that is hard to come by in the
noise of everyday life there's a
profound Beauty in The Quiet Moments
moments where I can simply be without
the need to explain myself or fill the
Silence with
words I think of the evenings I spend
sitting on my porch a warm cup of tea in
my hands watching the sun set slowly
over the
horizon the world feels still and in
that Stillness I find myself I hear my
own thoughts and I feel a deep gratitude
for the life I have
lived Solitude has given me the space to
reflect on my past not with regret but
with
appreciation I look back at the joys and
challenges of my life and see them for
what they are lessons that have shaped
me into who I am
today in solitude I have learn to make
peace with the mistakes I've made and to
cherish the memories that bring me
happiness instead of running from my
thoughts I sit with them knowing that
they are a part of my
journey this time alone has also
deepened my relationships with others by
stepping back from the constant noise of
social obligations I've become more
intentional with how I spend my time and
with whom I share it when I do spend
time with loved ones I am fully present
listening laughing and savoring every
moment Solitude has taught me that I
don't need a large crowd to feel
fulfilled a quiet conversation with
someone who truly knows me is worth far
more than any social Gathering where I
feel
invisible most importantly Solitude has
taught me to Value myself it is easy to
believe that our worth is defined by how
many people surround us or how busy our
calendars are but the truth is your
value comes from within you are enough
just as you are you don't need others to
validate your worth and you don't need
to fill every moment of your life with
noise to Feel
Complete if you've ever feared being
alone I encourage you to see Solitude
for what it truly is a gift it is a
chance to reconnect with yourself to
ReDiscover what brings you peace and joy
it is a space to breathe to heal and to
appreciate the quiet beauty of life when
you Embrace Solitude you begin to
understand that being alone doesn't mean
being lonely it means choosing yourself
honoring your own needs and finding
comfort in your own
company in the Stillness of solitude I
have found a strength I never knew I had
I have learned that I am whole even when
I'm alone and in that wholeness I have
discovered a pieace that no amount of
noise or company could ever bring if you
too can Embrace The Quiet Moments you
will find that Solitude is not something
to run from it is a source of clarity
freedom and profound
Joy six avoiding others is about
protecting
peace there Comes A Time in life when
you realize that not every person
deserves a seat at your table not every
invitation needs a response and not
every relationship is worth the effort
to sustain this understanding doesn't
come from bitterness or anger it comes
from Years of Living learning and
growing into yourself I didn't always
feel this way there was a time when I
gave too much of myself to others
thinking that to be kind meant to be
endlessly available I showed up for
everyone even when it cost me my own
peace I stretched myself thin trying to
be the Dependable friend The Helpful
neighbor and the supportive family
member until I was left feeling drained
and unseen
the older I get the more I understand
the value of protecting my peace peace
is not something the world hands you
it's something you build for yourself
and sometimes that means making
difficult choices about the people you
allow into your
life I've learned to recognize the signs
the relationships that leave me feeling
exhausted the conversations that drain
me rather than inspire me the people who
take far more than they give for too
long long I ignored these red flags
convincing myself that loyalty meant
staying even when it chipped away at my
happiness but life has taught me
otherwise I've learned that avoiding
certain people isn't cruel it's
necessary there are those who thrive on
drama who carry negativity with them
like a shadow who never ask how you're
doing but always expect you to listen to
their complaints these are the people
I've chosen to step away from not
because I don't care care about them but
because I care about myself protecting
my peace means recognizing that I don't
have to carry the weight of
relationships that bring me down I don't
have to be everything to
everyone there is a freedom in letting
go when you stop forcing yourself to
maintain connections out of guilt or
obligation you create space for the
relationships that truly matter
connections that are mutual meaningful
and uplifting I found that the PE people
who remain in my life now are the ones
who care for me as I am not for what I
can offer they are the ones who bring
joy and light into my days who make me
laugh without expectation and who simply
sit with me in comfortable silence when
words aren't
necessary avoiding others doesn't mean
I've shut the door on the world on the
contrary it means I've opened the door
to peace I no longer feel the need to
explain myself or Justify my choices I
know what brings me joy and what doesn't
and I choose to spend my days
accordingly I no longer measure my worth
by how many people surround me or how
often I'm invited somewhere my worth
isn't determined by how many friends I
have it's determined by how at peace I
feel Within
Myself if you've reached this stage of
life and find yourself stepping back
from certain people I want you to know
that it's okay you're not alone and
you're not doing anything wrong
You're simply honoring the person you've
become and protecting the peace you've
earned life is too short to waste on
relationships that leave you feeling
empty choose your company carefully and
don't be afraid to walk away from
anything or anyone that doesn't align
with the life you want to
live in protecting my peace I found a
deeper happiness than I ever thought
possible my days are quieter now but
they are Fuller filled with the things
and people that matter most there's no
drama no noise just a calm that feels
like a warm embrace if avoiding others
is what it takes to build that peace
then so be it I've learned that my peace
is worth it and so is
yours seven a shared
experience there is a moment in life
when you begin to wonder am I the only
one who feels this way you step back
from certain people from obligations
that once felt necessary and you start
to notice how how much lighter you feel
but then the doubt Creeps in you wonder
if you're being selfish or if you've
simply grown tired of the world I've
been there I've asked myself those same
questions but as I've talked to others
in this stage of Life friends neighbors
even strangers I've realized something
beautiful this experience is not mine
alone it is shared by so many of us who
have reached this season of
life for decades we poured ourselves
into others we were the Dependable ones
the helpers the listeners we built our
lives around the needs of others our
children our spouses our friends and
even our colleagues and while there was
joy in that role there was also
sacrifice we gave so much of ourselves
that we sometimes forgot to save
anything for us now in these later years
we're learning a different
lesson it's okay to pull back it's okay
to prioritize your own peace your own
needs and your own happiness
what's interesting is how common this
realization becomes as we age I've
spoken to countless people in their 60s
7s and Beyond who are experiencing the
same shift we've all come to understand
that life isn't about the quantity of
relationships we have it's about the
quality The Superficial connections that
once seemed important have lost their
appeal What We crave now are the
relationships that feel real we want
conversations that nourish nourish our
souls friendships that feel effortless
and moments of connection that remind us
of what truly
matters this shift isn't always easy
sometimes it feels like letting go of
parts of ourselves saying no to people
who once relied on us can feel
uncomfortable but the truth is we can't
be everything to everyone and trying to
do so only leaves us feeling drained and
resentful by stepping back we create
space for something better relationships
that are mutual balanced and meaning or
meaningful when I look around at my
friends and peers I see this same
pattern over and over again we're no
longer interested in chasing approval or
meeting unrealistic
expectations we've reached a point where
we know what matters to us and we're not
afraid to live accordingly for some that
means embracing Solitude for others
means strengthening the bonds that have
stood the test of time for many it means
stepping away from relationships that no
longer bring
peace if you've ever felt this way I
want you to know that you're not alone
this experience is shared by so many of
us who have walked a long road and
learned hard but valuable
lessons it's not about shutting the
world out it's about finding Clarity
peace and a sense of purpose in this
stage of
Life we've earned the right to live
intentionally to focus on what brings us
joy and to let go of what doesn't life
at this age is about freedom freedom to
be ourselves to choose our company
wisely and to embrace the simple beauty
of each
day if you found yourself pulling back
know that it's not a sign of weakness
it's a sign of wisdom you are not alone
in this journey we are all learning
together to live a life that feels truer
quieter and infinitely more
meaningful embracing this chapter of
life in our youth we are taught to chase
to chase success to chase approval to
chase a future that always seems just
Out Of Reach we rush through life as
though it is a race all always looking
forward to the next Milestone the next
opportunity the next chapter but as the
years pass we begin to see life
differently we stop chasing and start
reflecting we stop proving ourselves and
start accepting who we are this stage of
Life what many call our golden years is
not an ending it's a beginning it's a
chapter filled with a freedom we
couldn't have imagined in our younger
days is the freedom to live for
ourselves to let go of the pressures and
expectations we carried for so long and
to embrace the Simplicity of the present
moment I used to believe that life was
defined by its busyness by how much I
could accomplish and how many people I
could
please but now I see that life's
richness isn't found in doing it's found
in being it's found in The Quiet Moments
Of Joy the heartfelt conversations and
the comfort of knowing you've lived a
life filled with
meaning reflection has be become one of
my greatest
Comforts I look back at the life I've
lived the victories and the failures the
moments of pure happiness and the
moments of deep pain and I see it all as
part of my journey every experience has
shaped me into the person I am today I
no longer dwell on the mistakes I made
or the opportunities I missed instead I
honor them as lessons as threads woven
into the fabric of my life
but this chapter is not just about
looking back it's also about looking
forward there is still time to create to
learn to explore and to grow there is
still time to nurture the relationships
that matter most to try something new to
enjoy The Simple Pleasures we once
rushed past whether it's tending a
garden writing a letter to an old friend
or sitting in the sun with a book these
small intentional moments have a beauty
that feels deeper than anything I knew
before in this chapter I've learned to
embrace authenticity I no longer feel
the need to pretend or to prove anything
to anyone I've let go of the fear of
judgment and the need for approval
instead I live as the truest version of
myself imperfect but content there is a
certain kind of peace that comes with
knowing you no longer have to carry the
weight of the
world this stage of life is not about
how much we do or how much we achieve
it's about how fully we live it's about
slowing down appreciating what we have
and choosing to focus on what truly
matters it's about finding joy in the
ordinary and seeing Beauty in the
Simplicity of each day it's about
letting go of the noise the expectations
and the things that no longer serve us
and holding tightly to the things that
bring us peace purpose and
love if you find yourself in this
chapter of life I encourage you to
embrace it fully let go of the rush the
worry and the need to be everything for
everyone this is your time to live
intentionally to fill your days with
meaning and to savor The Quiet Moments
that make life so beautiful life doesn't
have to be perfect to be
meaningful sometimes the most profound
Joys are found in the simplest things
the warmth of the sun on your face the
sound of a loved one's Voice or the
Peace of sitting in Silence with nothing
but your thoughts this chapter of life
is yours to write make it one of
authenticity gratitude and deep
contentment because when you Embrace
this season when you stop chasing and
start appreciating you discover that
this chapter might just be the most
beautiful one
yet these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and authentically now
I'd love to hear from you take a moment
to reflect and share one thing you've
learned and plan to apply in your own
life let's support each other on this
journey toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like
this thank you for watching and here's
to living life on your own terms