five things I don't do anymore after
70 reaching 70 is a significant
Milestone a time to reflect on life
Embrace new priorities and let go of
habits that no longer serve us when I
turned 70 I made a conscious effort to
reassess My Lifestyle I realized that
holding on to certain patterns or
behaviors from my younger years wasn't
bringing me happiness or peace
so I decided to make some
changes here are five things I've
stopped doing after turning 70 and
they've made a world of difference in my
life I hope these insights resonate with
you whether you're in your late 60s 7s
or
Beyond if you enjoyed this video give it
a thumbs up don't forget to subscribe
and turn on notifications so you never
miss an
update one I don't worry about what
others think of me
reaching 70 has given me the clarity to
see what truly matters in life and what
doesn't one of the most liberating
changes I've embraced is letting go of
the weight of others opinions for
decades I allowed myself to be
influenced by what people thought of me
I worried about my appearance my choices
and how I was perceived in social
situations but as I've grown older I've
realized that chasing approval from
others is like trying to hold water in
your hands it Slips Away no matter how
tightly you grasp
here's the truth no matter what you do
people will always have opinions they'll
judge how you look how you live and even
how you age but those opinions they say
far more about the person giving them
than they do about
you when I was younger I felt an
unspoken pressure to measure up whether
it was at work among friends or even
with family I wanted to be seen as
successful competent and put
together but now
I see how draining that
was why should I waste my energy
worrying about whether someone approves
of how I dress or how I spend my time
I've spent seven decades learning
growing and living my life if someone
doesn't like the person I've become
that's their problem not
mine one moment stands out in my memory
a few years ago I was at a family
gathering and someone made a comment
about how I'd let myself go because I
wasn't dying my hair anymore in the past
a comment like that would have stung I
might have rushed to a salon the next
day to cover up my grace just to avoid
judgment but that day I simply smiled
and said this is me take it or leave it
and I meant it those gray strands are
part of my story they represent the
wisdom challenges and experiences that
have shaped who I am
today this shift in mindset doesn't mean
I've stopped caring all together it
means I've stopped worrying there's a
difference I care deeply about the
people I love and the relationships that
matter to me but I no longer lose sleep
over the opinions of acquaintances
strangers or even family members who
don't understand my
choices what's more I've discovered that
worrying about others opinions often
robs us of
Joy how many times have we hesitated to
do something we love because we're
afraid of what people might say
maybe you've wanted to wear a bold
outfit start a new hobby or share your
opinion but held back because of fear of
judgment I've been there too but now I
refuse to let those fears Hold Me Back
life is too short to live for someone
else's
approval letting go of this worry has
brought a deep sense of peace I'm more
present in my daily life because I'm no
longer preoccupied with what others
might think I laugh louder dress more
comfortably and embrace my imperfections
without apology whether it's a chipped
tooth or a wrinkle on my face these
so-called flaws are Badges of a life
well-
lived one of the most beautiful things
about aging is the freedom it brings
with every passing year I care less
about fitting into society's
expectations and more about living
authentically after all I've spent 70
years navigating the highs and lows of
life life I've earned the right to be
myself without
explanation so if there's one piece of
advice I'd share with anyone approaching
their 70s it's this stop worrying about
what others think your worth isn't
determined by someone else's opinion
wear what makes you happy speak your
truth and live in a way that feels right
to you you've spent decades taking care
of everyone else now it's time to take
care of
yourself two I don't tolerate negative
or toxic
people one of the greatest gifts I've
given myself after turning 70 is the
permission to step away from negativity
and toxic people when you're young you
often feel an obligation to endure
difficult relationships whether it's for
work family or friendships but after
living through seven decades I've
learned an invaluable truth not every
battle is worth fighting and not every
person deserves space in your life
I used to think that tolerance was a
virtue that putting up with unpleasant
people was just part of being a good
person whether it was dealing with a
demanding coworker a critical friend or
even a relative who never had a kind
word to say I convinced myself it was my
responsibility to keep the peace but the
truth is constantly tolerating toxic
Behavior drains your energy and steals
your joy at this stage in life I've
realized that my energy is too precious
to waste on
negativity now that doesn't mean I cut
people out of my life without thought or
reason but I've become much more
intentional about the kind of
relationships I nurture if someone
consistently brings negativity into my
life whether it's through constant
criticism unnecessary drama or an
inability to respect boundaries I step
back one experience that stands out for
me is a friendship I had with someone
I'd known for decades we had shared a
lot of good times but over the years our
relationship began to feel one-sided
every conversation was filled with
complaints and comparisons and I left
each interaction feeling drained for a
long time I told myself that loyalty
meant sticking it out but as I
approached 70 I started to question that
belief was I really doing either of us a
favor by holding on to a friendship that
no longer brought Joy or
support eventually I made the ult
decision to distance myself it wasn't
easy but it was
necessary and you know what Letting Go
created space in my life for healthier
more fulfilling
relationships sometimes walking away is
an act of self-respect not
selfishness another area where I've set
boundaries is within my family like many
people my age I've dealt with family
dynamics that aren't always easy while
I'll always love my family I've realized
that love doesn't mean tolerating
behavior that harms your well-being if a
family member is repeatedly
disrespectful or dismissive I address it
with kindness but firmness and if the
behavior doesn't change I allow myself
to step back
emotionally setting these boundaries has
been
transformative it's allowed me to focus
on the relationships that truly matter
the ones that uplift and energize me my
grandchildren for example bring so much
light into my life spend spending time
with them reminds me of the joy and
innocence that life can hold and it's a
start contrast to the weight of toxic
interactions I've also learned that the
way people treat you often has more to
do with them than with you toxic
behavior is usually a reflection of
someone's own pain insecurities or
frustrations while I have compassion for
that I no longer feel the need to absorb
it my role isn't to fix or endure
someone else's negativity I've earned
the right to protect my
peace in distancing myself from toxic
people I found a newfound appreciation
for the beauty of solitude spending time
alone no longer feels lonely it feels
like a gift whether I'm reading a book
taking a quiet walk or simply sitting
with my thoughts I cherish the moments
when I'm free from negativity These
Quiet times allow me to reconnect with
myself and
recharge if you're nearing 70 or already
there I encourage you to reflect on the
relationships in your life are they
bringing you joy support and connection
or are they weighing you down with
negativity it's not always easy to make
changes but it's worth it every day is a
gift and you deserve to spend it
surrounded by love and positivity not by
people who drain your
spirit in the end letting go of toxic
people is isn't about anger or
resentment it's about choosing peace and
at this stage in life peace is one of
the most precious things we can
cultivate so I no longer tolerate
negativity in my life and it's one of
the best decisions I've ever made three
I don't have unrealistic expectations of
others as I've entered my 70s one of the
most important lessons I've learned is
to let go of unrealistic expectations of
others for for much of my life I held
people to high standards I expected
punctuality reliability thoughtfulness
and a level of understanding that
frankly not everyone is capable of
giving I believed that if I could meet
those expectations myself others should
too but with age comes wisdom and I've
come to realize that holding on to those
expectations only creates frustration
disappointment and sometimes unnecessary
conflict the truth is people are who
they are some are compass passionate and
considerate While others may be
forgetful self-centered or even
oblivious to the impact of their actions
trying to change people or expecting
them to meet your idea of what they
should be is not only feudal it's
exhausting and after 70 I've decided
that my energy is far too valuable to
waste on being disappointed by unmet
expectations I remember a time when I
would get upset if a family member
forgot my birthday or didn't call when
they said they would it wasn't about the
Mist gesture itself it was about what it
represented to me I thought if they
cared they would
remember but as I've grown older I've
realized that life is complicated for
everyone people get busy distracted or
overwhelmed and it doesn't always mean
they don't
care sometimes it's just life happening
and holding on to resentment only hurts
you not
them now I've made a conscious effort to
approach my relationships with a sense
of acceptance rather than expectation
I've stopped assuming that people will
behave a certain way or meet a specific
standard instead I try to meet them
where they are and appreciate them for
who they are not who I wish they would
be this shift has been liberating it
doesn't mean I've lowered my standards
or stopped valuing meaning meaningful
connections it simply means I no longer
let others Act actions or inactions
dictate my emotional state if someone
doesn't call when I expect them to I
don't dwell on it if they show up late
or forget something important I remind
myself that their imperfections don't
diminish the good qualities they bring
to my life that's not to say it's always
easy there are still moments when I feel
a Pang of disappointment especially with
those closest to me but instead of
letting that disappointment Fester I
remind myself that forgiveness and
understanding are far more valuable than
harboring resentment holding grudges
only builds walls and at this stage in
life I'd rather build
Bridges interestingly letting go of
unrealistic expectations has also
improved the way I see myself for years
I held myself to impossibly high
standards I expected to be the perfect
parent friend partner and worker I
thought that if I wasn't constantly
Meeting those expectations I was failing
but now I extend the same Grace to
myself that I've learned to extend to
others I've come to embrace the fact
that none of us are perfect we're all
just doing the best we can with what we
have one of the most beautiful results
of this change is that my relationships
have become more authentic by letting go
of expectations I've created space for
people to show up as their true selves
flaws and all and in turn they feel more
comfortable around me it's amazing how
much stronger and deeper connections can
become when you stop trying to mold them
into something they're
not that
said I've also learned the importance of
setting healthy boundaries letting go of
expectations doesn't mean accepting
disrespect or mistreatment if someone
repeatedly crosses a line I address it
with honesty and compassion and if
necessary I distance myself the key is
finding a balance understanding that
people aren't perfect perfect but also
knowing when to protect your own
well-being now I approach each day with
a lighter heart I don't carry the weight
of disappointment over things I can't
control I've realized that happiness
doesn't come from others meeting my
expectations it comes from appreciating
the moments of connection kindness and
joy that life offers however
imperfectly to anyone reading this who
may struggle with letting go of
expectations I encourage you to try it
it's not about giving up on people it's
about giving yourself the gift of Peace
when you stop expecting others to be
something they're not you open the door
to acceptance understanding and even
gratitude and at the end of the day
that's what makes life truly
fulfilling four I don't set complex or
overwhelming
goals for much of my life if I was a
planner I had lists spreadsheets
calendars and vision boards mapping out
my next steps I set goals for everything
work family personal growth and even
Hobbies my days were defined by to-do
lists deadlines and an endless pursuit
of accomplishment back then it seemed
necessary goals gave me direction and a
sense of purpose and achieving them
brought
satisfaction but now that I've entered
my 70s I've realized something profound
life doesn't need to be a constant race
toward the next
achievement one of the most liberating
changes I've made is letting go of the
need to set complex long-term goals I no
longer wake up each day feeling like I
have to conquer the world or tick every
box on a list instead I focus on smaller
simpler intentions that feel meaning
meaningful in the moment and the result
a greater sense of peace and contentment
than I've ever known
in my younger years I believed that
success was tied to how much I
accomplished I had five-year plans
career milestones and personal projects
I tracked religiously but over time I
noticed something troubling the more I
achieved the less satisfied I felt it
seemed there was always another goal
waiting around the corner demanding my
attention and energy the cycle was
endless and I rarely took the time to
appreciate what I had already
accomplished as I've aged I've come to
understand that the constant pursuit of
goals can rob us of the ability to live
fully in the present life becomes a
checklist instead of a
journey at 70 I'm no longer interested
in chasing lofty complicated goals that
may or may not bring happiness instead I
prioritize what feels right in the Here
and Now
for example instead of saying I want to
lose 20 pounds this year I focus on
smaller actions that contribute to My
overall well-being like taking a daily
walk or preparing a healthy meal instead
of setting a grand goal like traveling
to five countries I might simply plan a
day trip to a nearby town or enjoy
exploring my own backyard these smaller
intentions are manageable flexible and
most importantly aligned with the life I
want to live today not a year from
now this doesn't mean I've given up on
dreams or stop planning altogether it
means I've shifted my
perspective my goals are no longer about
proving something to myself or others
they're about creating moments of joy
and fulfillment I've traded rigid
timelines for open-ended curiosity I
don't need a detailed road map for the
next 5 years I just need the courage to
take the next step whatever that may
be letting go of complex goals has also
allowed me to embrace imperfection in
the past if I didn't achieve a goal
exactly as planned I would feel like I
had failed but now I see those moments
differently life is unpredictable and
sometimes the best experiences come from
plans that go
Ary by keeping my intentions simple and
flexible
I've learned to adapt and find joy in
the
unexpected another benefit of
simplifying my goals is the freedom it's
given me to truly enjoy retirement
retirement isn't about replicating the
structure and business of a career it's
about savoring the freedom to do what
feels meaningful whether that's spending
time with loved ones pursuing a hobby or
simply sitting quietly with a cup of tea
it's the little things that matter
most I've also found that this shift has
made me more attuned to my own needs
some days I wake up full of energy and
motivation ready to tackle a project or
engage in an activity I love other days
I feel more reflective preferring to
rest and recharge by letting go of
strict goals I've given myself
permission to honor those feelings
without
guilt if there's one lesson I've learned
in my 70s it's this goal goal should
serve your life not the other way around
if a goal feels overwhelming stressful
or disconnected from your values it's
okay to let it go at this stage in life
your time and energy are too precious to
be spent chasing achievements that don't
bring you
Joy instead of focusing on what you want
to achieve focus on how you want to feel
do you want to feel peaceful inspired
connected
let those feelings guide your actions
and you'll find that life unfolds in a
much more natural and fulfilling
way so no I don't set complex or
overwhelming goals anymore and you know
what I don't miss them what I've gained
is far greater the freedom to live my
life with intention authenticity and a
deep appreciation for the present moment
at the end of the day it's not the goals
we achieve that Define us it's the
moments we cherish along the
way
five I don't try to stay busy just for
the sake of being
busy for much of my life I thought
staying busy was a sign of productivity
purpose and even
worth I filled my days with tasks
appointments and commitments believing
that if I wasn't doing something I was
somehow wasting time but after turning
70 I've realized something profound
staying busy for the sake of being busy
doesn't add meaning to your life it
takes away from
it when I reflect on my earlier years I
see how much of my time was spent trying
to do it all I juggled work
responsibilities family obligations and
social engagements often feeling like I
was spinning plates in the air even in
retirement I initially carried this
mindset with me I filled my calendar
with activities from joining clubs to
volunteering for multiple organizations
thinking that the busier I was the the
more fulfilled I would
feel but over time I began to notice
something unsettling instead of feeling
content I often felt tired stressed and
strangely
unfulfilled it was as if I was moving
through life on autopilot checking off
boxes without truly experiencing the
moments that mattered that's when I
realized busyness is not the same as
purpose now at 70 I've embraced a slower
more intentional way of living I no
longer feel the need to pack my days
with endless activities or to justify my
time with productivity instead I've
learned to listen to myself my energy my
emotions and my needs some days I feel
motivated and energized ready to tackle
a project or spend time with friends
other days I wake up and simply want to
rest read a book or sit quietly in my
garden and you know what that's okay
letting go of the need to stay busy has
taught me the importance of presence
when I was constantly rushing from one
thing to the next I rarely had time to
pause and appreciate the beauty of the
world around me now I find joy in the
simplest moments a morning cup of coffee
the laughter of my grandchildren the way
sunlight filters through the
trees these moments may seem small but
they hold a depth of meaning that I
often overlooked when I was too busy to
notice of course there's a balance to be
struck I'm not advocating for complete
inactivity staying engaged with life is
essential for both physical and mental
health but the key is to engage in
activities that genuinely bring you Joy
not just those that fill your time for
me this means taking long walks tending
to my garden and working on Creative
projects like writing or painting these
activities aren't about about
productivity they're about connection
creativity and
peace one of the most significant shifts
I've made is letting go of the guilt
that often accompanies rest in our
culture there's an unspoken pressure to
always be doing something resting or
taking a day to Simply Be can feel
indulgent even lazy but I've come to
understand that rest is not a luxury
it's a necessity it's in those moments
of Stillness that we recharge reflect
and reconnect with
ourselves I've also noticed that slowing
down has improved my relationships when
I'm not rushing through my day I have
more time to truly connect with the
people I care about whether it's a
leisurely phone call with an old friend
or an unhurried afternoon with my family
these moments of connection are far more
meaningful than any task I could check
off a
list another thing I've let go of is the
pressure to join every group club or
activ that comes my way in my earlier
retirement years I felt the need to say
yes to everything Social Clubs
volunteering opportunities exercise
classes but I've learned that saying no
is just as important as saying yes by
being selective about how I spend my
time I can focus on the things that
truly matter to me rather than
stretching myself
thin letting go of busyness has also
allowed me to embrace spontaneity when
your days aren't packed to the brim you
have the freedom to say yes to
unexpected opportunities a last minute
lunch with a friend a spontaneous drive
to the countryside or simply in
afternoon spent exploring a new hobby
life feels lighter more open and more
enjoyable when you're not bound by a
rigid
schedule if there's one thing I've
learned after 70 it's that time is our
most precious resource
but the value of time isn't measured by
how much you do it's measured by How
Deeply you live staying busy for the
sake of being busy can distract you from
what truly matters the relationships
moments and experiences that bring you
Joy and
fulfillment so now I live my days with
intention not obligation I focus on what
feels right not what looks productive
and in doing so
I've discovered a richness and depth to
life that I never found in all my years
of busyness if I could offer one piece
of advice to anyone nearing this stage
of life it would be this don't mistake
busyness for purpose slow down listen to
your heart and make room for the moments
that truly matter after all those are
the moments that make a life well- lived
final
thoughts letting go of these five things
has made my 70s some of the best years
of my life by focusing on what truly
matters my health relationships and
passions I found a sense of peace and
contentment that I didn't always have in
my younger
years if you're nearing 70 or already
there I encourage you to reflect on what
no longer serves you whether it's toxic
people unrealistic expectations or the
pressure to stay constantly busy letting
go can can be incredibly freeing life is
short but it's also full of
opportunities to find joy and
fulfillment thank you for reading and I
hope these insights inspire you to
embrace the next chapter of your life
with Grace and
positivity these lessons are meant to
inspire you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey journey
toward embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like
this thank you for watching and here's
to living life on your own terms