I'm 70 I avoid people now here's why
part
two Hello friends it's IIA here again a
little older a little grayer and
hopefully a little wiser I recently
turned 70 and it feels like both a
milestone and a moment for reflection
for those of you who watched my first
video thank you your stories and
comments about how life changes as we
age
really resonated with me it reminded me
that even though I've chosen to step
back from people in many ways there are
still connections out there real
meaningful ones that we can find even
from a
distance today I want to talk more about
why I've come to avoid people what I've
learned over the years and why honestly
I don't think that's necessarily a bad
thing if you're someone in your 60s 7s
or Beyond I think you'll understand
where I'm coming from this isn't about
bitterness or regret it's about choosing
peace protecting your time and
recognizing what truly matters in the
years we have
left if you enjoyed this video give it a
thumbs up don't forget to subscribe and
turn on notifications so you never miss
an update one how time changes
us time has a way of shaping Us in ways
we often don't notice until we pause and
reflect turning 70 has brought with it a
profound sense of clarity about what
matters most in life it's not just the
passage of years it's the accumulation
of experiences both good and bad that
slowly refine how we see the world and
ourselves looking back I've come to
realize how much time has not only
changed me but also taught me when I was
younger time felt infinite days seemed
to stretch endlessly and I thought there
would always be enough of them to fix
mistakes pursue dreams and nurture
relationships but as the years roll on
that illusion Fades you begin to see
time as it truly is a finite resource
slipping through your fingers faster
than you'd like by 70 you don't just see
the sand in The Hourglass you feel it
every decision you make carries weight
because the luxury of endless tomorrows
no longer
exists this awareness of time has
shifted my priorities in a way I never
anticipated I used to chase after so
many things achievements recognition
social connections believing they were
markers of a life well-lived but now I
see that so much of it was noise
distractions from what really matters
the older I get the more I understand
that the most valuable currency isn't
money or fame it's peace of mind and
peace isn't something you find in a
crowded room or a hectic
schedule it's something something you
cultivate by choosing how to spend your
time and who to spend it
with another thing time has taught me is
that relationships evolve and so do we
there was a time when I felt compelled
to keep everyone in my life to hold on
to every friendship even the ones that
no longer served me I believed that
Letting Go meant failing somehow that it
reflected poorly on me but time has a
way of showing you the truth about
people and about yourself not everyone
is meant to walk with you through every
chapter of your life some people are
only meant to be part of a few pages and
that's
okay at 70 I've learned to be more
selective about who I allow into my life
it's not out of bitterness or arrogance
it's about valuing the time I have left
I want to spend it with people who truly
see me who bring joy and warmth into my
life rather than conflict and stress
time has taught me that not every
relationship is worth maintaining and
that saying goodbye to toxic or shallow
connections isn't a loss it's a
gain reflecting on the decades behind me
I also see how time has given me
perspective on regrets I used to fear
them to try to live in a way that
avoided making mistakes at all costs but
life doesn't work that way we all make
choices we wish we could undo say things
we wish we hadn't or stay silent when we
should have spoken up the gift of time
though is that it allows us to see those
regrets In a Different Light they're not
just mistakes they're lessons they've
shaped who I am today and while I
wouldn't want to relive them I wouldn't
erase them
either time also changes how we see the
world when I was younger everything felt
so urgent every problem seemed
Monumental every conflict a battle that
needed to be won now I realize that most
things work themselves out with or
without my intervention the world is
full of noise opinions arguments crises
but I no longer feel the need to engage
with all of it time has taught me that
peace comes from knowing when to step
back and when to let
go the passage of time has also brought
gratitude as I sit here now I'm more
thankful than ever for the little things
I once overlooked The Quiet Moments the
way the sunlight filters through the
trees in the morning the laughter of my
grandchildren the simple pleasure of a
home-cooked meal these are the things
that fill my heart they don't require
grand gestures or busy schedules they
simply require being present and
appreciative Time Has Changed me in ways
I couldn't have imagined when I was
younger it Stripped Away the layers of
pretense the need to prove myself and
the fear of what others might think it's
replaced those things with a deeper
understanding of who I am and what I
value and while aging comes with its own
set of challenges I wouldn't trade the
wisdom and perspective I've gained for
anything if there's one thing I want to
leave you with it's this time is
precious but it's also forgiving even 70
there's still room for growth for Love
For Joy there's still time to focus on
what truly matters to let go of what
doesn't and to embrace the life you have
with open arms time changes us yes but
it also gives us the chance to change
ourselves and for that I'm endlessly
grateful two the value of
solitude as I've grown older Solitude
has become more than just an absence of
people it has become a sanctuary a space
where I can truly breathe and exist as
myself in my younger years I used to
fear being alone the silence felt heavy
and the lack of constant activity made
me restless but now at 70 I see Solitude
not as a void but as a gift a treasure
that I have come to cherish more than I
ever thought possible Solitude allows me
to slow down and reconnect with the
things things that truly matter in the
hustle and noise of earlier decades it
was easy to get swept up in obligations
social expectations and the constant
need to do rather than he be but in
solitude there is no pressure to perform
no need to keep up appearances no one
demanding my
attention there is only the quiet and in
that quiet I found
Clarity I found myself my one of the
most beautiful things about Solitude is
that it allows you to listen not to the
chatter of the world but to your own
heart when we're constantly surrounded
by people their voices can drown out our
own their opinions expectations and
energy can blur our sense of who we are
but in solitude I've had the time and
space to reflect on my life my values
and my desires without
interference it's in those Quiet Moments
that I've come to understand what truly
brings me joy and what doesn't what I
want to embrace and what I need to let
go I've also discovered that Solitude
Fosters
gratitude when I'm alone I notice the
details that I once took for granted the
way the sunlight dances on the leaves
the soft sound of rain on the roof the
warmth of a cozy blanket on a cool
morning these are small ordinary things
but in the Stillness of solitude they
feel extraordin ordinary they remind me
that Joy doesn't always come from grand
gestures or big events it often comes
from the simple beauty of everyday
life another lesson Solitude has taught
me is that loneliness and being alone
are not the same thing loneliness is an
ache a longing for connection that isn't
fulfilled I felt that before especially
in times when I was surrounded by people
but still felt unseen or misunderstood
but being alone is different it's a
choice conscious decision to step back
and create space for myself in solitude
I don't feel lonely I feel whole I feel
at
peace that peace is something I protect
fiercely now because I've come to
understand how rare and precious it is
over the years I've had my share of
chaotic relationships and draining
social dynamics I've learned that not
every everyone who enters your life
brings value and not every relationship
is worth maintaining Solitude has given
me the courage to set boundaries to say
no when I need to and to prioritize my
well-being over others
expectations it's a freedom I wish I'd
embraced
sooner Solitude has also become a time
for creativity and curiosity in the
Stillness I find myself drawn to the
things I love reading writing guarding
buring or simply sitting outside and
watching the world go by these moments
aren't about productivity they're about
presence they're about immersing myself
in activities that nourish my soul
rather than drain my energy there's a
quiet joy in doing something for no
other reason than because it makes you
happy perhaps most importantly Solitude
has taught me to appreciate the
relationships I do choose to keep it's
not about shutting people out entirely
it's about being intentional with my
time and
energy when I do spend time with loved
ones it feels more meaningful because
I'm approaching it from a place of peace
and fullness rather than exhaustion or
obligation Solitude has helped me see
that quality always matters more than
quantity when it comes to human
connection as I reflect on the value of
solitude I realize that it's not just
about retreating from the world it's
about returning to myself
in the quiet I found strength Clarity
and contentment that I never knew I
needed it's a reminder that even in a
world that often glorifies busyness and
constant interaction there is immense
power in
Stillness if there's one thing I would
tell my younger self or anyone
struggling with the idea of being alone
it's this Solitude isn't something to
fear it's something to embrace it's a
space where you can heal grow and
ReDiscover who you are and in that
Discovery you might just find the peace
and happiness you've been searching for
all
along three the challenges of
trust trust is one of those fragile
things in life easily given when we're
young but harder to extend as we grow
older and wiser at 70 I've come to
understand trust in a way I never could
in my earlier years it's not just about
believing in others it's about
recognizing who has earned a place in
your life and guarding that place
carefully the journey to this
understanding however has not been an
easy
one when I was younger I believed the
best in people almost instinctively I
thought kindness would be met with
kindness honesty with honesty I gave my
trust freely perhaps too freely over
time though life taught me that not
everyone operates from the same place of
sincerity some people take advantage of
your openness some manipulate betray or
deceive not always out of malice but
sometimes out of their own pain or
self-interest while these experiences
are a natural part of life they leave
their Mark the scars of misplaced trust
linger I can still recall the sting of
certain betrayals business deals that
turned sour friendships that faded when
I needed them most relationship ships
that chipped away at my selfworth each
instance felt like a crack in the
foundation of how I viewed the world
slowly but surely I began to question
not just others but also myself how
could I have been so blind how could I
not have seen this
coming these questions weighed heavily
for years trust became something I
viewed with suspicion a vulnerability I
wasn't sure I wanted to expose anymore
by the time I reached my 60s I found
myself approaching people with caution
always wondering what do they really
want from me what's their angle it
wasn't bitterness it was
self-preservation a shield I built to
protect myself from further harm but
here's the thing about trust while it
can be broken it can also be rebuilt the
process however requires patience and
discernment I've learned to give my
trust more carefully now not as an act
of fear but as an act of wisdom I no
longer feel the need to explain myself
or prove my worth to others instead I
focus on observing listening and
understanding who people truly are
before inviting them into my circle
trust isn't something I hand out freely
anymore it's something that must be
earned that doesn't mean I've closed
myself off completely on the contrary
learning to navigate trust has helped me
appreciate the people who truly deserve
it when someone proves themselves to be
kind reliable and genuine that trust
feels even more
valuable it's not something I take for
granted because I know how rare it can
be trust I've come to realize is also
about trusting myself in my younger
years I often ignored my instincts
brushing aside red flags in favor of
giving people the benefit of the doubt I
wanted so badly to believe in the
goodness of others that I silenced the
little voice inside me that said this
doesn't feel right now I honor that
voice I've learned to trust my own
judgment to listen to my gut when it
tells me to proceed with caution or to
walk
away it's one of the greatest lessons
age has taught me your intuition is one
of your most powerful tools and it
rarely steers you
wrong at this stage of life I've also
come to understand that not everyone is
meant to stay in your life forever some
people come into your world for a season
or a purpose and when that time is over
it's okay to let them go clinging to
relationships out of guilt or obligation
only leads to resentment trust doesn't
mean keeping everyone close it means
knowing who belongs in your life and who
doesn't I'll admit there are moments
when I wonder if I've become too
cautious too guarded but then I remind
myself that trust like any other
precious thing must be handled with care
it's not about shutting people out it's
about letting the right ones in the
people I choose to trust now are the
ones who've shown me time and time again
that they are worthy of it they are the
ones who show up who listen who respect
my boundaries and my
time if there's one thing I've learned
it's that trust is not just about others
it's about protecting your peace it's
about recognizing your worth and
refusing to settle for less than
relationships built on mutual respect
and authenticity the challenges of trust
have shaped me yes but they've also
strengthened me they've taught me to
Value the connections that matter and to
walk away from the ones that don't at 70
I see trust as a gift rare delicate and
deeply meaning orful it's not something
to give lightly but when shared with the
right people it creates bonds that are
unshakable and perhaps that's the
greatest lesson of all trust wisely but
when you do trust fully because those
who deserve it will honor it and in
doing so they'll remind you that trust
while fragile is also one of the most
beautiful parts of Being Human four
Aging in Social
expectations aging brings with it a
profound sense of self-awareness a
Clarity that often cuts through the
noise of societal
expectations yet for all its wisdom this
stage of life doesn't come without
challenges particularly the weight of
what the world expects from us as we
grow older by the time you reach 70 it
becomes glaringly obvious how many of
those expectations are rooted in
assumptions that don't align with who we
truly
are for much of my life I felt compelled
to meet these expectations Society
paints a picture of aging should look
like the cheerful grandparent always
surrounded by Family the senior
enthusiastically joining Community
groups the retiree traveling the world
and ticking off bucket list items it's a
glossy image one that implies that
anything less than constant activity or
endless social connection means you're
somehow doing it wrong I tried to live
up to that image for a while but
somewhere along the way I realized it
didn't feel authentic to
me the truth is aging doesn't come with
a one-size fits-all script each of us
carries Our Own Story our own
preferences and our own pace for some
being surrounded by people is energizing
for others it's draining for me I've
found that peace comes in quiet moments
not in crowds or busy schedules it's not
that I don't love my family or value my
connections it's that I've come to
prioritize depth over quantity
Simplicity over busyness and that's okay
it took me years to understand that
stepping away from certain social
expectations wasn't selfish or
antisocial it was an act of self-respect
when I hit 70 I gave myself permission
to stop apologizing for the life I
wanted to live I realized that my value
doesn't come from how many people I
interact with or how active I appear to
be my value comes from being true to
myself and finding fulfillment in the
ways that feel right to
me one of the hard parts of Aging is
letting go of the fear of judgment
there's an unspoken pressure to conform
to what others think we should be doing
if you don't attend every family
gathering you're seen as distant if you
don't participate in community events
you're considered disengaged if you
prefer Solitude over constant
socializing people wonder if you're
lonely but here's the truth not everyone
thrives in the same environment and not
everyone finds joy in the same
activities what looks like isolation to
some may feel like freedom to others for
me the freedom to live life on my own
terms has been one of the greatest Gifts
of Aging I've stopped trying to fit into
molds that don't suit me I no longer
force myself into conversations that
feel empty or Gatherings that leave me
drained instead I focus on the
relationships and moments that bring
genuine
Joy it's not about quantity it's about
quality a heartfelt conversation with
one person I trust means more to me than
being surrounded by a crowd of
acquaintances I've also learned that
aging isn't about proving anything to
anyone there's a quiet power in
embracing Simplicity and rejecting the
pressure to constantly achieve something
even in retirement life doesn't have to
be erased to accumulate experiences or
check off boxes to be
meaningful sometimes the most profound
experiences come from Simply being
present watching a sunrise tending to a
garden or sitting in Silence with a cup
of tea these moments aren't glamorous
but they are deeply
fulfilling Society often paints aging as
a time of decline as though we're
somehow less because we're no longer
working no longer raising children no
longer chasing the Ambitions that once
drove us but I see it differently aging
is a time of refinement of stripping
away the unnecessary and focusing on
what truly
matters it's not about how perceive us
it's about how we perceive ourselves and
for the first time in my life I feel no
need to explain or Justify my choices to
anyone of course that doesn't mean aging
is without
challenges it can be difficult to step
away from the roles and identities that
want to find us the transition from
being a parent a professional or
caretaker to Simply being ourselves can
feel disorienting but it's also Li
liberating at 70 I found a sense of self
that isn't tied to titles or
accomplishments I'm not defined by what
I do or who I interact with I'm defined
by how I choose to spend my time in the
peace I create in my own
life if there's one thing I've learned
about aging and social expectations it's
this there's no right way to grow old
the world will always have opinions
about what you should be doing but those
opinions don't Define you what matters
is how you feel at the end of the day
are you content are you at peace are you
living a life that feels true to who you
are if the answer is yes then you're
doing it right no matter what anyone
else might
think aging has given me the courage to
step away from the noise and focus on
the things that truly bring me
joy and in doing so I found that life
feels richer not poorer it's not about
meeting
expectations it's about exceeding them
by living
authentically that I believe is the real
beauty of growing
older
five what matters
now at 70 the question of what truly
matters becomes impossible to ignore you
know when you've lived through Decades
of striving learning and enduring you
begin to realize how little of the chaos
we once prior prioritized actually holds
lasting significance what matters now is
not the accolades or the Social Circles
but the moments of genuine connection
and the peace we create within
ourselves for me what matters most now
is Simplicity I find joy in the quiet
everyday moments the laughter of my
grandchildren the warmth of the sun on
my face during a morning walk or the way
the house feels at dusk when everything
is still these moments may seem small
but they hold a depth that is difficult
to describe they remind me that life's
richness isn't found in grand gestures
or busy schedules but in appreciating
the beauty that surrounds us every
day I've also come to Value authenticity
above all else at this age there is no
room for pretense what matters are the
relationships that feel real the
conversations that are meaningful and
the people who bring light into your
life I don't need a large group of
friends I need a small circle of
individuals who see me for who I am and
love me anyway the older I get the more
I value the freedom to be myself
unapologetically there's no longer a
need to impress or conform I am who I am
and I am
enough time has also taught me the
importance of letting go of grudges of
regrets of the need to control every
aspect of life what matters now is not
holding on to the past but living fully
in the present I've realized that
forgiveness both of others and of myself
is not just an act of kindness It's a
path to Freedom carrying Old Wounds only
weighs you down and at this stage of
life I want to travel
lightly what matters now is also finding
meaning in the ways we give back whether
it's sharing wisdom offering a listening
ear or simply being present for someone
who needs support I found that the
greatest fulfillment often comes from
helping others it doesn't have to be
grand or public sometimes it's the quiet
acts of kindness that leave the biggest
impact ultimately what matters now is
living a life that feels true it's about
stripping away the unnecessary focusing
on what brings joy and peace and
cherishing the moment and people that
make life worthwhile at 70 I've learned
that the simplest things are often the
most profound and that a life well-
lived is one filled with gratitude love
and a sense of inner
calm six my advice to
you if there's one thing I've learned
over these many years it's that life is
both fleeting and precious my advice to
you whether you're younger or standing
alongside me at this stage of life is to
treasure every moment not in the rushed
overly sentimental way that Society
often demands but in the quiet and
intentional way that allows you to truly
see and appreciate what's in front of
you don't let others dictate what your
life should look like the world is full
of opinions about how you should spend
your time especially as you age ignore
them this is your life and no one else
can live it for you whether you find joy
in solitude in family in Hobbies or an
adventure pursue it unapologetically the
most beautiful thing about aging is that
it gives you the freedom to choose how
you spend your remaining time take full
advantage of that
freedom let go of the idea that your
worth is tied to productivity or social
standing you've already proven yourself
in so many ways now is the time to focus
on what fulfills you not what impresses
others it's okay to rest to slow down to
say no setting boundaries is not selfish
it's necessary for your well-being honor
your energy and don't waste it on people
or situations that don't deserve
it my advice is also to embrace
forgiveness carrying anger or regret
only weighs you down and the older you
get the heavier that weight
becomes forgiveness doesn't mean
excusing bad behavior or forgetting past
hurts it means choosing to free yourself
from their grip forgive others for their
mistakes and forgive yourself for yours
we're all human and Perfection was never
the
goal finally my advice is to find beauty
in the ordinary the world is still full
of wonder even if it looks different
than it did in your younger
years take time to notice it watch the
seasons
change listen to the sounds of
nature find joy in the laughter of
children
the taste of your favorite meal or the
pages of a well-loved book Life's
greatest Pleasures are often the
simplest ones and they're always Within
Reach if you take the time to
look as you navigate the stage of Life
remember that you've earned the right to
live it on your own terms embrace the
freedom that comes with age surround
yourself with love peace and the things
that make you happy
and above all trust that you are exactly
where you're meant to be this is your
time use it wisely and savor every
moment embracing the wisdom of
age as I sit here reflecting on the
journey that brought me to this moment
I'm struck by the profound beauty of
Simply being life with all its twists
and turns its triumphs and losses has
shaped me into the person I am today a
person who values peace over chaos
authenticity over appearances and
simplicity over excess at 70 I no longer
feel the need to rush or prove anything
to anyone instead I find fulfillment in
the quiet rhythm of a life lived on my
own
terms if there's one truth I've come to
embrace it's that every stage of Life
carries its own kind of wisdom in youth
we seek to conquer the world in middle
age we work to secure our place within
it but in our later years
we realize that the greatest
accomplishment isn't found in what we
achieve outwardly but in the Inner Peace
we cultivate it's about knowing yourself
forgiving yourself and honoring the time
you have
left the Journey of Aging is not always
easy but it is deeply meaningful it
strips away the unnecessary and reveals
what truly matters the relationships
that bring joy the moments that make you
feel alive and the sense of contentment
that comes from living
authentically each day is a gift not
because of its Perfection but because of
its impermanence and when you Embrace
that truth life takes on a richness that
no amount of Youth or ambition can
replicate as I move forward I carry with
me the knowledge that I don't need to
have all the answers what matters is
showing up for myself for the people I
love and for the quiet beauty of life
itself this is my time to savor to
reflect and to Simply Be and if you've
made it this far whether you're just
beginning to reflect on these things or
you're walking the same path alongside
me know that you too have the power to
shape these years into something
meaningful something uniquely your
own thank you for sharing this moment
with me here's to embracing the wisdom
of age the beauty of Simplicity and the
freedom to live life in a way that feels
true take care my friends and may the
days ahead bring you the peace and
fulfillment you deserve these lessons
are meant to inspire you to live fully
and authentically now I'd love to hear
from you take a moment to reflect and
share one thing you've learned and plan
to apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these truths if you enjoyed
this video please leave a comment with
one if not feel free to comment with
zero your feedback means a lot to us
don't forget to like share and subscribe
to our YouTube channel for more content
like this thank you for watching and
here's to living life on your own terms