I'm 70 I don't go visiting around here's
why reaching 70 years old feels like
Crossing into a new chapter of Life a
chapter filled with quiet Reflections
Lessons Learned and a simpler
Pace it's not that I've lost the desire
to see people catch up over coffee or
Embrace those I care about rather I've
discovered that the act of visiting
around isn't as simple or fulfilling as
it used to
be it's not always a matter of energy
but rather a shift in how I value time
relationships and peace in this stage of
my
life let me take you through the reasons
why I've stepped back from visiting and
how it's helped me find
contentment if you enjoyed this video
give it a thumbs up don't forget to
subscribe and turn on notifications so
you never miss an update one a slower
rhythm feels
right as the years have passed I've
learned that life is not a race to be
won but a journey to be savored at 70
the pace of my days has naturally slowed
and with that comes a deeper
appreciation for
Simplicity the hurried days of my youth
when time felt infinite and energy
seemed boundless have given way to
something gentler something more
deliberate I no longer longer wake up
with a checklist of things to accomplish
or places to go instead I begin my
mornings by sitting quietly with my
coffee watching the sunlight filter
through the trees outside my window
there's a profound Beauty in the
Stillness one I never fully noticed
before In These Quiet Moments I found
that slowing down isn't just a necessity
of Aging it's a
gift visiting others once a routine part
of my life now feels like stepping into
a rhythm that no longer matches my own
it's not that I don't enjoy the company
of family and friends I do deeply but
the preparation the effort and the
energy it takes to maintain a social
routine feel at odds with the pace I've
come to Embrace Life at this stage isn't
about cramming as much as I can into
each day it's about finding meaning in
the time I
have when I was younger I felt an
obligation to show up to be present for
every birthday dinner or casual coffee I
wanted to be seen to connect to be a
part of something bigger than myself but
now I find that the connections I
cherish most don't require my physical
presence as
often a heartfelt phone call or a
thoughtful letter carries as much weight
as a visit sometimes even more these
quieter forms of connection allow me to
stay close to the people I love without
disrupting the peaceful rhythm of my
days there's also a certain piece that
comes with no longer rushing from one
place to another I've learned that
life's most precious moments often
happen in Stillness the way the light
shifts as the day moves on the sound of
the Wind Through the Trees or the soft
hum of familiar
surroundings these are the moments I
would miss if I were constantly moving
constantly
doing I've come to understand that
visiting others while joyful can
sometimes feel like stepping back into a
busier more demanding world it's a world
where schedules have to be aligned
conversations flow quickly and the space
to Simply Be is rare at 70 I no longer
feel the need to keep up with that pace
instead I choose to remain where life
feels steady and
calm there's a kind of wisdom that comes
with aging a knowing that not every
invitation must be accepted and not
every moment needs to be filled with
activity I've let go of the guilt that
used to accompany declining visits it's
not about being unkind or disinterested
it's about honoring my own limits and
choosing a life that feels authentic to
me this isn't a withdrawal from the
world it's an intentional decision to
engage with it on my own
terms sometimes when I look back I
realize how much of life I spent chasing
time always rushing to the next next
thing always feeling like there wasn't
enough but now I've learned to treasure
the present by embracing a slower Rhythm
I've discovered that time expands in The
Quiet Moments there's no urgency no need
to be anywhere but
here the choice to slow down to visit
less isn't about isolation it's about
presence it's about being fully here
Fully Alive in the spaces I've created
for myself at 70 I've learned that
life's richest Joys often come not from
doing but from Simply being and that to
me feels just right two energy is
precious there's a truth that becomes
undeniable as we age energy once taken
for granted becomes a finite resource
it's not something I used to think about
much in my younger days back then I
could fill a day with errands social
visits and late night
conversations and still wake up the next
morning ready to do it all over again
now at 70 the choices I make with my
energy feel more intentional more
deliberate when I wake up in the morning
I don't rush to fill my schedule instead
I listen to my body there are days when
I feel strong and eager ready to tackle
a walk outside or a long phone call with
a dear friend but there are also days
when even the thought of leaving the
house feels like too much and that's
okay I've learned to honor my
limitations not fight against
them visiting someone often requires a
level of energy I no longer have at my
disposal it's not just the act of
traveling from one place to another it's
the mental and emotional energy it takes
to engage fully to be present to listen
deeply these are things I value but they
take more out of me now I don't want to
show up somewhere only to feel exhausted
or unable to enjoy the moment I'd rather
save that energy for the things that
truly bring me joy and
fulfillment I also find myself being
more selective about how I spend my
energy at this stage of life every
choice feels more significant it's not
about being selfish it's about
recognizing that my time and energy are
limited and I want to use them wisely
instead of scattering my attention
across countless interactions I've
chosen to focus on the relationships and
activities that matter most to me that
might mean a heartfelt phone call with a
grandchild or spending an afternoon loss
in a good book things that replenish me
rather than drain
me there's a beauty in this kind of
mindfulness by being intentional with my
energy I've discovered a deeper sense of
peace and contentment I no longer feel
the need to be everything to everyone
instead I focus on being fully present
in the moments and connections I choose
and that to me feels like the best use
of my
energy three modern social expectations
feel
different the way people socialize today
is not what it used to be I often find
myself reminiscing about the days when
visiting was simple back then there was
an unspoken understanding you didn't
need an invitation to stop by you showed
up at someone's door maybe with a plate
of cookies or just a warm smile and they
welcomed you in without hesitation it
wasn't about appearances or formality it
was about
connection now visiting feels different
it's no longer spontaneous it's planned
scheduled and at times even rehearsed
there's an expectation to make
everything look perfect a tidy home a
prepared meal the right clothes these
little pressures may seem small to some
but to me they take away from the joy of
the visit I don't want to feel like I
have to perform when I see the people I
care about I want to feel comfortable
authentic and at
ease social Gatherings too have changed
conversations seem faster more surface
level as if everyone is trying to fit
their stories into a limited amount of
time there's less space for the Deep
meaningful exchanges I
crave it's not anyone's fault it's just
the way the world has
shifted but it makes me yearn for the
Simplicity of the the past when time
felt slower and connections felt more
genuine I've also noticed that many
homes today aren't designed for people
like me stairs that are difficult to
navigate chairs that are too low and
Loud bustling environments can make
visiting more challenging than it used
to be I often find myself worrying about
whether I'll be comfortable whether I'll
be able to hear well in a noisy room or
whether I'll feel out of
place these little worries can
overshadow the joy of the visit
itself this isn't to say that I don't
value connection I do deeply but I've
started to find new ways to connect that
feel more aligned with where I am in
life a handwritten letter A thoughtful
phone call or even a video chat allows
me to stay close to the people I care
about without the added stress of
today's social norms these quieter more
intimate forms of connection feel truer
to me and they become a Cornerstone of
how I maintain
relationships the world may have changed
but I've learned to adapt in ways that
preserve my sense of peace and
authenticity I've let go of the need to
keep up with modern expectations and
instead focus on creating connections
that feel meaning or meaningful and real
after all it's not about how we connect
it's about the love and care we share in
the process and that to me is what truly
matters four the the comfort of my own
space home has taken on a new meaning
for me in these later years of life it's
no longer just a place where I live it's
where I find Solace familiarity and
peace over time I've come to understand
that no matter how warm or welcoming
someone else's space may be it can never
quite replace the comfort of my own my
home is a reflection of who I am Each
corner filled with memories each object
tied to a
story when I sit in my favorite Chair by
the window with the soft light streaming
in I feel
grounded it's not just a piece of
furniture it's a space that holds me in
ways no other place can the smells of my
kitchen the gentle Creeks of the
floorboards and the way the sun warms
the room in the late
afternoon all of these small ordinary
things bring me a sense of
belonging I don't have to adjust myself
to fit in here my home fits
me the idea of leaving this Sanctuary to
visit someone else as much as I might
love them feels more Dawning now than it
did before their home might be lovely
but it's
unfamiliar will their chairs be
comfortable will I have to navigate
stairs or awkward
spaces these questions linger in my mind
more than they used to and the prospect
of stepping out of my comfort zone
sometimes outweighs the joy of the visit
itself it's not that I don't care about
others it's that my home has become my
retreat a place where I can fully relax
and be myself the world outside feels
busy noisy and unpredictable but Within
These Walls I find
peace it's a kind of contentment that's
hard to explain but easy to feel when
you're here my home is where I'm
happiest and I've learned to honor
that five physical
challenges as much as I like to ignore
it my body doesn't move with the same
ease it once did I feel it in my knees
when I climb stairs in my back when I
sit too long and in the way I Tire more
quickly than I used to these changes are
subtle at first but over time they shape
how I live my life they make me think
twice about the things I used to do
without hesitation like visiting friends
or traveling across
town every outing now feels like it
comes with a checklist do I have enough
energy for this will I have to sit for
long periods will I be able to navigate
their home without feeling pain or
discomfort these aren't just minor
considerations they're real tangible
barriers that make visiting more
complicated than it once
was I also find myself more attuned to
the environments I enter many homes
aren't designed with the older adults in
mind stairs can feel like mountains soft
couches can be hard to get out of and
small crowded spaces can make me feel
unsteady
it's not just about convenience it's
about safety and dignity I don't want to
feel like a burden constantly asking for
help or accommodations and so more often
than not I choose the path of least
resistance staying
home it's not always easy to accept
these limitations there's a part of me
that still feels young that wants to
move freely and do all the things I once
did but I've learned to be gentle with
myself to acknowledge that my body is
doing its best even if it's not as
strong or agile as it once
was by accepting these changes I've
found new ways to live fully within the
bounds of what I can
do staying home doesn't mean giving up
on relationships or experiences it just
means approaching them
differently I've come to appreciate the
small gestures that make life beautiful
a phone call from a friend a quiet
moment in my garden or a handwritten
note sent to someone I care about these
things may seem small but they carry
immense meaning they remind me that
connection isn't about where we are it's
about the love and care we share no
matter the
distance six prioritizing relationships
that
matter as I've grown older one of the
most valuable lessons I've learned is
that not all relationships are created
equal when I was younger I felt a
responsibility to nurture every
connection to keep every relationship
alive no matter the cost But as time
passes you come to realize that some
connections bring you energy and joy
While others seem to drain you without
giving much in return at 70 I've made
peace with the idea that it's okay to
let some relationships fade while
focusing deeply on the ones that truly
matter
this isn't about holding grudges or
harboring resentment it's about choosing
to invest my time and energy in the
people who lift me up there's a beauty
in nurturing relationships that feel
reciprocal where care flows both ways
these are the bonds that bring light to
my days the ones where a simple phone
call can feel like a warm
embrace over the years I've also learned
that quality matters far more than
quantity I don't need a large circle of
acquaintances
I need a small group of people who truly
know me who love me not despite my flaws
but because of them these are the people
who have stood by me through life storms
who know my story and honor
it focusing on these relationships has
brought me a sense of peace I didn't
know I needed I no longer feel the
pressure to attend every event or keep
up with every distant connection instead
I found joy in the quieter more meaning
game meaningful moments spending time
with family having heartfelt
conversations with close friends or
simply being present for the people who
matter
most letting go of certain relationships
can be Bittersweet but it's also
liberating it allows me to create space
for the connections that truly enrich my
life at this stage I value depth over
breadth and I've learned to give myself
permission to prioritize what feels
right for me seven technology offers new
ways to
connect in a world that's constantly
evolving I found comfort in embracing
the tools that allow me to stay
connected without always needing to be
physically present technology once
intimidating has become a Lifeline in
ways I never expected at first I
resisted it feeling that it could never
replace the warmth of a face-to-face
visit but over time I've come to see it
as a bridge a way to stay close to the
people I love even when I can't be there
in
person video calls for instance have
become a window into the lives of my
children and grandchildren seeing their
faces light up watching them share their
stories and accomplishments it's a gift
I cherish deeply it's not the same as
being there but it's enough to remind me
that love and connection can transcend
distance I've even learned to laugh at
myself when I fumble with the technology
my grandkids think it's funny and their
laughter is enough to make the effort
worthwhile text messages and social
media have also become part of my daily
life I used to think these things were
impersonal but I've realized there's
simply another way to say I'm thinking
of you a quick message from a friend or
a photo shared by family can brighten my
day in ways I never expected it's a
reminder that I'm still part of their
lives even if I'm not physically
present perhaps my favorite form of
connection though is the handwritten
letter in a world dominated by screens
there's something Timeless and deeply
personal about putting pen to paper I've
started sending letters again not out of
necessity but because they feel special
writing a letter forces me to slow down
to reflect on my thoughts and feelings
and to share them in a way that feels
genuine when I receive letters in return
I treasure them as keepsakes proof that
the connection between us is real and
enduring technology and tradition don't
have to be at odds they can complement
each other offering different ways to
stay connected depending on the moment
I've learned to embrace both finding joy
in the convenience of a video call while
still holding on to the magic of a
handwritten note these tools have
allowed me to maintain relationships in
ways that feel authentic and meaningful
even as my ability to visit in person
has lessened in the end it's not about
how we connect it's about the love and
care we share and that I've discovered
can happen in countless beautiful
ways eight reflecting on
loss at 70 loss has become a familiar
companion quiet shadow that follows me
through life it's not just the loss of
loved ones though those absences are
felt most deeply it's also the loss of
routines abilities and parts of myself
that I once took for granted with each
goodbye there's a reminder of how
fragile and fleeting life is and that
realization has shaped the way I
approach my days and my
relationships when I think about
visiting others I sometimes feel the
weight of these
losses stepping into a home where
someone I loved once lived or gathering
with friends who remind me of the one
who are no longer here can stir a
sadness that lingers long after the
visit is over it's not that I don't
treasure the connections I still have I
do but there's a heaviness in knowing
that some people I'd love to see again
are no longer within reach their absence
is a silence that no conversation can
fill over time I've learned to honor
these losses and quiet personal
ways I light candles for those who've
passed their flickering flames a
reminder that their light still lives
within me I look through old photo
albums letting the memories wash over me
bitter sweet as they
are I speak their names aloud as if to
keep their presence alive in the air
around me these small rituals help me
carry their memory forward even as I
navigate the changing landscape of my
relationships loss has also taught me to
be more present with the people who are
still here every conversation every
shared moment feels more precious
because I understand how quickly it can
all change I've become more intentional
about expressing my love and gratitude
making sure that the people I care about
know how much they mean to me in a way
loss has deepened my capacity for
connection even as it has narrowed the
circle of those I connect
with visiting around May remind me of
who is missing but it also reminds Rems
me of who remains by focusing on the
relationships that bring me joy and
comfort I've found a way to navigate the
grief that inevitably comes with a long
life loss has shaped me but it hasn't
broken me instead it's helped me see the
beauty in the time and love I still have
nine protecting my
peace as I've grown older I've come to
understand the value of peace not just
as a fleeting moment of quiet but as a
state of being that nurtures my mind
body and soul protecting that peace has
become a priority one I guard fiercely
in this stage of life it's not about
shutting people out or withdrawing from
the world it's about creating boundaries
that allow me to live with intention in
harmony visiting others while often
joyful can sometimes disrupt that sense
of Peace the preparations the travel and
the energy required to engage fully can
feel overwhelming even the anticipation
of a visit wondering if I'll feel
comfortable if the day will go smoothly
can create a sense of unease that
lingers in the back of my mind I've
learned to recognize when these feelings
arise and to honor them rather than push
through them out of
obligation peace for me is found in the
simple rhythms of my
day it's in the quiet of the morning
when the world is still waking up it's
in the sound of birds outside my window
the pages of a book turning softly in my
hands or the warmth of a blanket on a
chilly
evening these moments small and ordinary
bring me a sense of grounding that I
struggle to find in the busyness of
social
interactions by protecting my peace I've
also given myself the space to reflect
and grow I've discovered new passions
like painting and gardening that fill my
day with purpose and joy I've deepened
my understanding of myself learning to
listen to what I truly need rather than
what others expect of me and I found a
contentment that doesn't rely on
external validation or constant activity
it comes from
within this doesn't mean I don't value
connection on the contrary I cherish the
relationships that bring me peace rather
than disrupt it I've learned to say no
to invitations that feel more like
obligations
choosing instead to invest my time in
the people in activities that align with
my sense of
calm it's not always easy but it's a
choice that has brought me immeasurable
happiness in protecting my peace I've
found a way to navigate the complexities
of Aging with Grace I no longer feel the
need to chase after every opportunity or
be present for every occasion instead I
focus on creating a life that feels
authentic and fulfilling and in doing so
I've discovered that true peace is not
something you find it's something you
create 10 finding joy in simpler
connections as I've aged I've come to
appreciate the beauty of Simplicity
especially when it comes to connections
with others The fast-paced Gatherings
and elaborate social events that once
excited me now feel like a whirlwind
that I'm no longer drawn to instead I
found found joy in the quieter more
intimate forms of connection those
moments that don't require Fanfare just
presence there's a special kind of magic
in the simple gestures that make up my
days a neighbor waving hello as they
pass by a warm smile exchanged with the
cashier at the grocery store or the
comforting ritual of calling a dear
friend to check in these interactions
may seem small to an outsider but to me
they're deeply meaningful they remind me
that connection isn't about Grand
displays her constant activity it's
about the genuine exchange of care and
kindness I've also discovered the beauty
of solitary connection moments where I
feel close to others even when I'm
physically alone writing a letter to my
grandchildren imagining their Delight as
they read my words fills me with a quiet
Joy looking through old photo albums and
reliving Cherished Memories reminds me
of the love that has surrounded me
throughout my life even sitting quietly
with my thoughts reflecting on the
people I hold dear feels like a form of
connection these simpler connections
have taught me to savor the present I no
longer feel the need to keep up with
every Trend or attend every Gathering to
feel close to others instead I focus on
the depth of the moments I do share a
heartfelt conversation over the phone
where laughter flows freely and stories
are exchanged feels more fulfilling than
any crowded event ever could it's these
moments that stay with me long after the
conversation has
ended I've also learned that connection
doesn't always have to be with others it
can be with the world around me sitting
in my garden feeling the sun on my face
and the Earth beneath my hands reminds
me that I'm part of something much
larger the gentle rhythm of nature its
cycles of growth and renewal mirrors the
connections in my own life teaching me
to appreciate season for what it
brings finding joy in simpler
connections has allowed me to let go of
the pressures and expectations that once
weighed on me I no longer feel the need
to prove my worth through endless social
engagements or constant activity instead
I've embraced a life that feels
authentic to who I am now one filled
with Quiet Moments Of Love gratitude and
Presence at 70 I've realized that
connection is n about how much you do or
how many people you see it's about the
quality of the interactions the
sincerity of the exchange and the
lasting warmth it brings to your heart
these simple meaningful moments have
become the foundation of my life and
they're more than enough to make me feel
fulfilled in them I found a deep and
abiding joy that doesn't need anything
more embracing a new way of
being as I sit and reflect on why I've
stepped back from visiting around I
realize it's not about withdrawing from
the world or the people I
love it's about honoring this stage of
life and the wisdom it brings at 70 I've
come to understand what truly matters
the depth of my relationships the beauty
of a slower pace and the peace that
comes from living
authentically I no longer feel the need
to fill my days with constant activity
or endless social obligations and
instead I choose to focus on the moments
and connections that nourish my soul
whether it's a heartfelt phone call a
handwritten letter or the quiet comfort
of my own home these are the things that
bring me joy and fulfillment life at
this stage is about embracing Simplicity
cherishing the present and finding
contentment in the small meaning
meaningful
moments for those who wonder why I no
longer go visiting around this is my
answer I'm not distancing myself from
life I'm living it in a way that feels
truest to me and in this way of being I
found a profound peace a life filled not
with noise or busyness but with purpose
love and
gratitude this I've come to realize is
more than
enough these lessons are meant to
inspire you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms