if you don't have these five types of
illnesses as you age you can live past
90 living a long vibrant life isn't just
a matter of luck or genetics in fact the
secret to aging gracefully lies in our
everyday choices while reaching 90 and
Beyond might seem like a distant goal
it's more achievable than you might
think the CDC reports that only 2% of
Americans make it past 90 but those who
do often share one common trait they
avoid five major health
conditions for those of us in our golden
years understanding how to steer clear
of these illnesses can mean the
difference between simply adding Years
to Life and adding life to years as
someone who has spent decades studying
health and aging I can tell you this
prevention is far more powerful than
cure let's explore the five types of
illnesses that stand between many older
Americans and the possibility of a
longer healthier life
if you enjoyed this video give it a
thumbs up don't forget to subscribe and
turn on notifications so you never miss
an update one type two diabetes the
silent
risk type 2 diabetes is often called The
Silent risk and for good reason it's a
condition that creeps up quietly showing
no obvious symptoms until significant
damage has been done for older adults it
poses a serious threat
not just because of its immediate
effects but because of how it
complicates nearly every other aspect of
Health it doesn't have to be this way
the power to prevent or delay diabetes
is largely in your hands and it starts
with small thoughtful choices that
compound over time think of your body as
a well-tuned machine when you eat food
turns into sugar which provides energy
for your cells insulin acts like a key
unlocking the doors of those cells to
let sugar in but with type two diabetes
IES this process breaks down the sugar
stays in your bloodstream circulating
aimlessly damaging nerves blood vessels
and organs along the way it's not just
about sugar it's about the domino effect
this damage causes vision problems
kidney issues heart complications and
more but here's the uplifting truth type
2 diabetes is one of the most
preventable chronic conditions it
doesn't require a drastic overhaul of
your life
but rather steady meaningful changes
that become second
nature start with your
plate the meals you prepare each day are
more powerful than any medication
imagine half your plate brimming with
vibrant vegetables green broccoli orange
carrots deep red bell peppers these
aren't just side dishes they're shields
for your body pair them with lean
proteins like grilled chicken or flaky
salmon and complement them with
wholesome grains or sweet potatoes each
bite helps keep your blood sugar steady
giving your body the balance it
craves avoiding hidden sugars is another
quiet Revolution you can lead in your
daily life that refreshing glass of
fruit
juice it's often no better than soda
sweetened coffees or breakfast cereals
they can spike your blood sugar as fast
as a candy bar instead sip water with a
slice of lemon or unsweetened tea and
Savor the Simplicity of their natural
flavors movement too is a powerful Ally
in your journey to prevent diabetes but
don't think of exercise as a grueling
task it's about finding joy in
motion a 15-minute walk after dinner
feeling the cool evening air on your
face can do wonders for your blood sugar
or perhaps you find joy and gardening
gently tending to flowers while giving
your body a gentle workout every step
you take every chore you complete is a
step toward a stronger healthier
you equally important is listening to
your body many people live with high
blood sugar for years without realizing
it regular checkups aren't just a
routine they're an act of self-care a
way of catching small issues before they
grow into larger problems early detect
action allows for simple lifestyle
adjustments rather than heavier
interventions
later and don't overlook the little
things that keep your body balanced
staying hydrated helps your body process
sugars more efficiently quality sleep 7
to eight hours of peaceful rest lets
your system recharge helping insulin
work as it should managing stress
through deep breathing or a quiet moment
of reflection keeps those sudden blood
sugar SP bikes at
Bay the journey to prevent diabetes
isn't about perfection it's about
progress one choice at a time maybe
today you'll swap out a sugary soda for
a glass of water tomorrow you might take
a short walk after lunch each of these
small acts is a powerful declaration
you're choosing Health vitality and
Independence for the years
ahead type 2 diabetes is a silent risk
yes but it's also a silent opportunity
each decision you make each habit you
build Whispers a promise to your future
self the promise of a life lived with
strength Clarity and energy well into
your later
years two heart disease the nation's
leading
killer heart disease is more than just a
medical condition it's a silent Thief
quietly taking moments and memories from
to too many lives for older adults it's
not just the leading cause of death in
America it's a force that diminishes
Independence vitality and the ability to
fully enjoy the years we've worked so
hard to
reach but here's the truth that often
goes unspoken heart disease is
preventable in the vast majority of
cases the power to protect your heart
lies not in a single Grand gesture but
in the small steady choices you make
every day
your heart is extraordinary it beats
over 100,000 times a day without rest
tirelessly pumping life- sustaining
blood through your body it's not just an
organ it's a symbol of resilience
strength and the fragility of life
itself yet as we age this remarkable
pump faces challenges over time our
blood vessels can narrow and Harden
burdening the heart with extra work high
blood pressure and cholesterol too often
undet ected culprits accelerate this
process quietly eroding the foundation
of our
health the first step in protecting your
heart is to recognize its value it's
easy to take for granted the quiet
Rhythm of Life it provides but by
nurturing your heart you're safeguarding
the moments that matter most the
laughter of grandchildren the comfort of
a long conversation with a dear friend
the simple joy of a morning walk these
moments are worth every effort
one of the most important changes you
can make is to examine what's on your
plate food isn't just fuel it's medicine
or it's poison too often salt Finds Its
way into our meals in Hidden forms
canned soups frozen dinners even that
seemingly innocent sandwich from the
local Deli too much salt raises blood
pressure placing unnecessary strain on
your heart Instead try cooking with
herbs and spices a sprinkle of Rosemary
or a pinch of cinnamon doesn't just add
flavor it transforms your meals into
allies for your
heart adding heart healthy foods is
equally essential imagine a plate filled
with fresh greens bright orange carrots
and deep purple berries these vibrant
colors aren't just appealing to the eye
they're packed with antioxidants and
nutrients that reduce inflammation and
protect your blood vessels fish like
salmon and tuna bring omega-3 fatty
acids to the table which help keep your
heart's Rhythm steady even a square of
dark chocolate enjoyed in moderation can
bring both pleasure and
benefit movement too is a language your
heart
understands you don't need to run
marathons or spend hours at the gym
instead think of movement as a gift you
give yourself a leisurely walk in the
morning feeling the sunlight warm your
face strengthens your heart and lifts
your mood gardening dancing or even
tidying up the house can count as
exercise when done mindfully the goal
isn't perfection it's progress simply
moving more today than you did yesterday
is a victory worth celebrating stress
often overlooked plays a profound role
in heart health when we're stressed our
bodies release hormones that raise blood
pressure and heart rate putting our
hearts under strain
but Stress Management doesn't have to be
complicated taking a few moments each
day to breathe deeply pray or sit
quietly with a cup of tea can help your
heart find its natural Rhythm
surrounding yourself with loved ones
sharing laughter and maintaining strong
social connections are equally vital the
heart after all thrives on love and
connection sleep is another Cornerstone
of heart health during sleep your blood
pressure naturally drops giving your
heart the chance to rest and recover
yet many older adults struggle with
insomnia or restless nights creating a
peaceful bedtime routine keeping your
room cool and dark avoiding screens
before bed and establishing a regular
sleep schedule can make a significant
difference lastly regular checkups are
not just an act of Maintenance they're
an act of love for yourself and your
family knowing your key numbers blood
pressure cholesterol and blood sugar
empowers you to take action before
problems arise these numbers aren't just
statistics they're indicators of how
well your heart is being cared
for the journey to a healthier heart
isn't about drastic Transformations it's
about making small intentional choices
that honor the life you've built and the
people you cherish each decision you
make whether it's choosing an apple over
a bag of chips taking a short walk
instead of sitting all afternoon or
spending a quiet moment reflecting on
what you're grateful for strengthens not
just your heart but your
spirit heart disease is a formidable
challenge but it's not an inevitable
Destiny your heart is a reminder of
life's fragility and resilience
protecting it is about more than just
adding years to your life it's about
adding life to your years with each beat
your heart is given giving you another
chance to live fully to love deeply and
to create lasting memories let every
Healthy Choice you make be a tribute to
this gift three cancer reducing the
odds cancer is a word that carries with
it a weight of fear and uncertainty
especially as we age it's a reminder of
the fragility of life but it's also a
call to action while no one can
eliminate every risk of cancer what many
don't realize is that nearly 40% of
cases are preventable through the
choices we make each day for those of us
in our later years these choices hold
the power to protect not only our bodies
but the memories relationships and joys
we cherish most cancer begins quietly
often hidden from view as damaged cells
multiply uncontrollably this process is
part of aging the body's repair
mechanisms naturally slow down over time
yet this isn't a reason to feel
powerless instead it's a reminder that
our daily habits can work with our
body's natural defenses to prevent this
damage before it spirals out of control
prevention is not about perfection it's
about creating a nurturing environment
for your body to
thrive regular screenings are one of the
simplest yet most powerful tools we have
in the fight against cancer they are not
just tests they are lifelines a
colonoscopy doesn't just detect colon
cancer early it can prevent it by
removing precancerous growths before
they become dangerous mammograms catch
breast cancer at its earliest stages
when it's most treatable skin checks
help identify melanoma before it has a
chance to spread these screenings are
acts of self-respect and foresight
ensuring that small concerns are
addressed before they grow into
life-altering
problems equally important is what we
choose to nourish our bodies with every
meal is an opportunity to protect your
cells and strengthen your resilience
imagine a plate filled with bright
greens orange carrots red peppers and
deep purple berries each color
representing powerful antioxidants that
neutralize harmful free radicals in your
body these vibrant foods are not just
delicious they are Shields against
cellular damage on the other hand
processed meats and heavily ch foods
have been linked to higher cancer risks
by choosing plant-based proteins like
beans lentils or even occasional fish or
poultry you're making a quiet yet
profound investment in your
health movement too plays a critical
role in cancer prevention physical
activity doesn't just help control
weight it reduces inflammation improves
immune function and supports your body's
ability to repair itself but don't think
of EXC is something you have to endure
instead find joy in motion a brisk walk
in your neighborhood tending to your
garden or even dancing to your favorite
music can all make a difference the key
is consistency a few minutes each day
done with intention can Ripple into
lasting
benefits protecting your skin is another
crucial step especially for those who've
spent decades enjoying the outdoors skin
cancer is one of the most most
preventable types of cancer yet it's
often overlooked daily sunscreen wide
brimmed hats and seeking shade during
Peak Sun hours are simple habits that go
a long way if you've accumulated sun
damage over the years know that it's
never too late to start protecting your
skin your body has an incredible ability
to heal when given the
chance maintaining a healthy weight is
another Cornerstone of cancer prevention
excess body fat produces hormones and
inflammatory substances that can fuel
cancer growth but this isn't about
chasing an arbitrary number on a scale
even modest weight loss just 5 to 10 lbs
can significantly lower your risk focus
on gradual sustainable changes smaller
portions mindful eating and choosing
nutrient-rich foods that satisfy both
your hunger and your
health it's also vital to pay attention
to your body signals unexplained weight
loss unusual bleeding persistent coughs
or changes in your skin can all be early
warning signs of cancer these symptoms
are not reasons to panic they are
reminders to seek answers early
detection often means better outcomes
giving you the power to address
potential issues before they grow
serious for those who smoke quitting is
one of the most impactful decisions you
can make even if if you've smoked for
decades the benefits of quitting begin
almost immediately your body starts
repairing itself within hours and your
cancer risk continues to drop the longer
you stay smoke free if quitting feels
overwhelming remember that support is
available from counseling to nicotine
replacement options you don't have to do
it
alone finally moderation is key when it
comes to
alcohol while a glass of red wine now
and then may offer certain health
benefits even moderate drinking
increases the risk of certain cancers
limiting alcohol to one drink per day or
less can protect your body while still
allowing you to enjoy life's small
Pleasures cancer prevention is not about
fear it's about empowerment it's about
recognizing that our choices matter no
matter our age each small step we take
today whether it's choosing a colorful
salad over processed snacks walking an
extra block or scheduling that long
overdo screening is an investment in our
future it's a way of saying I value my
life my relationships and the time I
have
left at its core the fight against
cancer is about resilience it's about
acknowledging the vulnerabilities of
Aging while celebrating the strength
within us to make changes that count as
we weave these habits into our lives we
create a legacy not just of longevity
but of Vitality and Grace each decision
we make is a reminder that aging is not
just about surviving it's about thriving
about living fully and deeply surrounded
by the people and experiences we love
four dementia preserving your
mind dementia is perhaps the most feared
illness among older adults and
understandably so it's more than just
the loss of memory it's the gradual
fading of Independence clarity and the
ability to connect with those we love
for many it represents a loss of self of
the stories we've carried and the
relationships we've nurtured over
decades yet there is hope nearly 40% of
dementia cases could be prevented or
delayed through intentional Lifestyle
Changes these small purposeful actions
can make all the difference in
protecting your mind and preserving the
essence of who you
are the journey to protect your brain
begins with understanding it our brains
like our bodies age over time this aging
process can weaken connections between
brain cells making it harder to retain
memories solve problems or think clearly
but just as our muscles respond to
regular exercise so too does our brain
it thrives on stimulation engagement and
challenge every time you learn something
new solve a puzzle or even try a new
recipe you're strengthening the
connections that keep your mind Sharp
mental engagement is not limited to
solitary activities social interaction
plays a profound role in brain health
think of the joy of a conversation with
a lifelong friend the laughter shared at
a family gathering or the sense of
belonging when participating in
community activities these moments
aren't just emotionally fulfilling they
are exercises for the brain the more we
engage with others the more we challenge
our Minds to listen think and
respond physical activity is another
Cornerstone of brain health movement
increases blood flow to the brain
delivering oxygen and nutrients that
help it function at its
best but this isn't about rigorous
workouts or impossible routines a gentle
walk in the park feeling the sun on your
skin and the breeze in your hair can be
as beneficial as it is
enjoyable gardening SW swimming or even
light stretching are all ways to keep
your body and your brain
active sleep is often overlooked yet it
is vital for brain health during sleep
our brains perform essential maintenance
clearing out harmful substances that
build up throughout the day this natural
cleansing process helps prevent the
accumulation of proteins linked to
dementia a good night's sleep isn't a
luxury it's a necessity creating a
bedtime routine avoiding screens before
bed and keeping a consistent sleep
schedule can help ensure your brain gets
the rest it
needs what you eat also plays a crucial
role in protecting your mind a diet rich
in fresh vegetables fruits whole grains
and healthy fats like those found in
fish nuts and olive oil provides the
nutrients your brain needs to stay
healthy on the other hand processed
foods excess sugar and salt can
contribute to inflammation and cognitive
decline over time imagine your meals as
opportunities to feed not just your body
but your mind as well hearing health is
another surprising factor in dementia
prevention untreated hearing loss can
lead to social isolation which is a
significant risk factor for cognitive
decline if you struggle to hear
conversations or the world around you
feels muted seeking help isn't just
about about improving your hearing it's
about protecting your brain modern
hearing aids can reconnect you to the
sounds of Life keeping your mind engaged
and
active stress and emotional health also
play critical roles chronic stress can
damage the brain while depression
increases the risk of dementia finding
ways to manage stress through deep
breathing meditation or even taking a
moment each day to reflect on gratitude
can help protect your mind if you're
feeling persistently low reaching out
for support is an act of strength not
weakness emotional health is deeply
intertwined with cognitive
Health managing chronic conditions like
high blood pressure and diabetes is
another way to guard against dementia
these conditions can damage the blood
vessels in your brain reducing its
ability to function properly regular
checkups and following your doctor's
advice are acts of self-care that Ripple
far beyond the present moment at its
heart protecting your brain is about
preserving the life you've built the
memories the connections and the ability
to continue experiencing the world with
Clarity and purpose it's about choosing
to take steps however small that honor
your past while investing in your
future dementia does not have to be an
inevitability while aging brings its
challenges it also brings wisdom
perspective and the opportunity to make
choices that truly matter every walk
every conversation every mindful bite of
food is a statement of your resilience
and commitment to living
fully the mind is not just a repository
of knowledge and memories it's the
essence of Who We Are by nurturing and
protecting it we give ourselves the
greatest gift of all the ability to keep
connecting loving and sharing in the
moments that make life meaning
meaningful
five chronic respiratory
diseases breathing
easy breathing is the most natural
effortless act we perform so essential
that we often take it for granted yet
for many older adults chronic
respiratory diseases like COPD chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma
can turn this once simple act into a
daily struggle these conditions are more
than just physical ailments they steal
away Vitality Independence and the
freedom to enjoy life's simplest
Pleasures but the truth is with the
right care and attention you can protect
your lungs and preserve your ability to
breathe deeply and freely even as you
age the health of your lungs reflects
the life you've lived Decades of
breathing in the world around you
whether clean Mountain Air or polluted
city smog leave their Mark for smokers
the damage may feel irreversible but
there's hope quitting at any age has
profound benefits within hours of
stopping smoking your lungs begin to
repair themselves and each day smoke
free add strength to your respiratory
system it's never too late to reclaim
the health of your lungs no matter how
long you've
smoked but protecting your lungs goes
beyond avoiding
cigarettes the air we breathe carries
unseen risks pollution allergens
and even household chemicals can harm
the delicate tissues of your lungs over
time on days when air quality is poor
staying indoors isn't a sign of weakness
it's a strategic choice to safeguard
your health investing in an air purifier
for your home or ensuring proper
ventilation can create a sanctuary of
Clean Air giving your lungs the break
they
deserve physical activity often
associated with heart health or Weight
Management
is just as vital for your lungs movement
strengthens the muscles around your
lungs making it easier to breathe and
improving your body's ability to use
oxygen efficiently but exercise doesn't
have to mean hitting the gym a slow
peaceful walk through your neighborhood
breathing in rhythm with your steps can
be enough to keep your lungs Active
swimming gentle yoga or even practicing
deep breathing exercises can expand your
lung capacity and improve overall
function for those with existing
respiratory conditions vaccines are an
essential defense flu and pneumonia can
be particularly dangerous for
individuals with weakened lungs staying
up toate with vaccinations isn't just a
precaution it's a powerful Act of
self-care that protects not only your
lungs but your overall
health even the food you eat can
influence your lung Health a diet get
rich in antioxidants found in fruits
vegetables and nuts helps combat
inflammation and supports your
respiratory system imagine the vibrancy
of an orange the Deep green of spinach
or the satisfying crunch of almonds
these aren't just Foods they're allies
in your fight for stronger
lungs but perhaps most importantly lung
health is deeply connected to mental and
emotional well-being anxiety or stress
can make breathing feel labored turning
a physical act into a mental challenge
learning to manage stress through
techniques like mindfulness meditation
or simply spending time in nature can
calm both the mind and the breath the
act of breathing deeply inhaling life
and exhaling tension is as healing for
the spirit as it is for the
body the signs of respiratory issues
should never be ignored persistent
coughs shortness of breath or unusual
wheezing are not just inconveniences
they're messages from your body asking
for attention seeking medical advice
early whether through regular checkups
or at the first sign of trouble can
prevent minor issues from escalating
into life-altering
conditions protecting your lungs is
about more than just avoiding disease
it's about preserving the freedom to
experience life Without Limits the
ability to take a deep breath to laugh
wholeheartedly or to sing along to your
favorite song is a gift worth cherishing
with each mindful Choice quitting
smoking staying active eating well and
managing stress you are honoring that
gift and ensuring it remains yours for
years to
come life is lived one breath at a time
each inhale is a connection to the world
around you and each exhale is a release
a letting go of what no longer serves
you by caring for your lungs you're not
just preserving your health you're
embracing the ability to live fully to
move freely and to savor every moment
with Clarity and ease let every breath
be a celebration of life and its Endless
Possibilities a life well-lived one
choice at a
time reaching 90 years or Beyond is not
merely about adding years to your life
it's about adding life to your years
it's about ensuring that the days ahead
are filled with Vitality Independence
and the ability to embrace every moment
with gratitude and joy while aging may
bring its challenges it also presents an
opportunity to honor The Gift of Life by
taking care of the body and mind that
have carried you through Decades of
memories and
experiences the key to longevity isn't a
miracle cure or a secret form formula it
lies in the small intentional choices we
make every day choosing to nourish your
body with Wholesome foods moving in ways
that bring you Joy prioritizing rest
managing stress and staying connected to
loved ones are all acts of self-respect
and
Care these habits form a protective
shield helping you avoid the five
illnesses that so often stand in the way
of a long fulfilling life type 2
diabetes heart disease cancer dementia
and chronic respiratory
diseases but longevity isn't just about
preventing illness it's about living
with purpose it's about cherishing the
laughter of family gatherings the quiet
mornings spent with a cup of coffee the
pride of tending to a garden or the
simple beauty of a
sunset every step you take to care for
yourself is an investment in these
precious moments in the Legacy you're
building and in the love you share with
those around
you the Journey of aging gracefully
teaches us a profound truth our lives
are shaped not by Grand Transformations
but by the cumulative power of small
meaningful actions each choice is a
reminder of our resilience our strength
and our capacity to thrive at any age
aging isn't a battle to be fought it's a
stage of life to be embraced with wisdom
wiom dignity and
Grace As you move forward let this be
your guiding thought every decision you
make today is a gift to your future self
the walk you take the healthy meal you
enjoy the connection you nurture all of
these are seeds planted for a vibrant
joyful tomorrow aging well is not about
striving for Perfection but about
finding balance joy and gratitude in the
journey
you hold the power to shape the rest of
your life Let each breath each step and
each moment be a testament to your
commitment to yourself in doing so
you're not just living longer you're
living better and that is the greatest
gift of
all these lessons are meant to inspire
you to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like
this thank you for watching andh here's
to living life on your own terms