I'm 71 I don't hate people I just feel
better when they're not
around Hello
friends I'm 71 years old now and let me
tell you reaching this age has been an
ey openening Journey it's not just the
gray hairs the creaky knees or the
endless doctor appointments although
those do keep life interesting it's the
perspective that changes you see the
world differently
people in particular feel different to
me now I don't hate anyone but if I'm
being honest I've come to enjoy my own
company a lot more these days I feel
lighter Freer and just playing better
when I'm not constantly surrounded by
others I'm sharing this with you because
I think many of you might feel the same
way if you're in your late 60s 7s or
even 80s perhaps you've noticed this
shift too let's talk about it if you
enjoyed this video give it a thumbs up
don't forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update
one a lifetime of
lessons a lifetime is a collection of
stories some cherished others we'd
rather forget but all of them shape who
we become at 71 I often find myself
reflecting on those stories and what
stands out most isn't the big Milestones
like weddings promotions or
anniversaries it's the smaller quieter
moments and the lessons They Carried
these Lessons Learned over decades have
subtly but profoundly changed the way I
see people and my place in the
world when I was younger I believed in
the goodness of everyone I thought that
with enough
kindness understanding in effort
relationships could be nurtured and
maintained but life as it does had other
plans I learned the hard way that not
everyone shares the Same Heart the same
intentions or the same capacity to Value
what you offer I've been let down by
people I trusted taken advantage of by
those I tried to help and left wondering
how I misjudge situations so
badly but these experiences didn't make
me bitter they made me wiser they taught
me that not every battle is worth
fighting and not every connection is
worth keeping I realized that people
come into our lives for a reason a
season or a lifetime and trying to hold
on to someone who was only meant to
teach you a lesson is like clinging to a
chapter in a book you've already
finished it's painful but it's necessary
to let
go looking back I see how much of my
energy was spent trying to please others
fit into groups or meet expectations
that weren't truly mine there were times
when I overextended myself giving and
giving until there was nothing left for
me I thought that was what it meant to
be a good person to always put others
first but now I understand that taking
care of yourself isn't selfish it's
essential you can't pour from an empty
Cup and the best relationships are those
where giving is mutual not
one-sided as I reflect on the those
years I'm struck by how much my
definition of happiness has changed when
I was younger happiness was loud it was
laughter at a crowded party the thrill
of a new adventure or the pride of
achieving something big but now
happiness is quiet it's sitting on my
porch with a cup of tea watching the sun
dip below the Horizon it's the piece of
knowing I don't owe anyone my time or
energy unless I choose to give it it's
the joy of being fully present in a
moment unbothered by the noise of the
world life has also taught me the
importance of boundaries a lesson I wish
I had learned sooner setting boundaries
isn't about shutting people out it's
about protecting your space your peace
and your well-being it's about knowing
your limits and not feeling guilty for
saying no in my earlier years I thought
saying no made me a bad friend a bad bad
partner or even a bad person but now I
know it's one of the most loving things
you can do for yourself and for others
boundaries show respect for your needs
and teach others how to respect them
too time has a way of revealing what
really matters the friendships I hold
dear now are fewer but they are
richer these are the people who have
stood by me through storms celebrated my
joys and accepted me exactly as I am I
no longer feel the need to collect
acquaintances or maintain relationships
that have run their course instead I
treasure the Deep meaningful connections
that have weathered the years they
remind me that quality always trumps
quantity what I've learned above all is
that life is too precious to spend
worrying about who likes you who doesn't
or who understands your choices
at this age I don't need everyone to
like me I like me and that's enough I've
grown comfortable with my own company
and I've come to see Solitude not as
loneliness but as a gift in the quiet I
can hear my own thoughts dreams and
truths more clearly than ever
before so no I don't hate people far
from it I've just learned that not
everyone belongs in my life and that's
okay the time I have left is valuable
and I want to spend it on what truly
matters peace joy and the simple
profound beauty of just
being two the beauty of
solitude there's a unique Grace and
Solitude one that I never fully
appreciated until later in life when I
was younger the idea of being alone felt
almost
unbearable I Associated it with
loneliness with a lack of connection or
purpose but now at 71 I see it
differently Solitude is not a void it's
a space where peace lives it's where I
found myself again after years of being
caught up in the noise of the world and
the expectations of others I've come to
treasure the quiet in the Stillness I've
learned to listen not to the voices of
others but to The Whisper of my own
heart there's something profoundly
healing about sitting with your thoughts
letting them unfold without
distraction the chaos of Life Fades and
what remains is Clarity it's in those
moments of solitude that I've come to
understand who I truly am what I value
and what I need to let go of to feel
free I've realized that the busyness of
my younger years was often a way to
avoid myself it's easy to fill your days
with obligations with people with noise
but when the house is quiet and there's
no one else to entertain or impress
you're left with the one person you can
never escape
yourself at first that realization is
unsettling but with time it becomes a
comfort in solitude I've learned to be
my own best company I've discovered the
joy of doing things simply because they
make me happy not to please others not
to check a box but for the sheer Delight
of it
there is a quiet freedom and Solitude
that social interactions often lack when
I'm alone there are no expectations to
meet no roles to play I don't have to be
the caregiver the friend the Entertainer
or the problem solver I can simply be
there's no pressure to say the right
thing or to anticipate someone else's
needs it's just me in my natural state
free to exist without pretense
this doesn't mean I've closed myself off
to others I haven't I still cherish
meaningful connections with family and
friends but I approach them differently
now I no longer feel the need to fill
every moment with company or
conversation I don't chase after
relationships that drain me or engage in
Social obligations out of guilt instead
I choose my interactions carefully
prioritizing depth over quantity and in
between I Retreat into the sanctuary of
solitude to recharge to reflect and to
savor the quiet joys of
life I've also come to see that Solitude
isn't something to fear it's a gift it's
in those moments of Stillness that I
feel most alive most connected to the
world around me watching a sunset
hearing the rustle of leaves or simply
sipping a cup of tea in the Morning
Light these simple acts when done in
solitude feel sacred they remind me that
life's Beauty often lies in its quietest
moments not in the loudness of crowds or
the rush of activity Solitude has taught
me to value my own company to trust my
instincts and to find contentment Within
Myself it has shown me that I don't need
to be surrounded by people to feel whole
in fact The more I've embraced solitude
The more I've realized how much strength
it takes to stand alone not as a sign of
isolation but as a declaration of
independence at 71 I've stopped worrying
about what others might think of my
quieter
lifestyle I've stopped apologizing for
needing space or for choosing to spend
my time differently than I once did
Solitude isn't a rejection of others
it's an Embrace of myself and in a world
that constantly demands more I found
that the greatest gift I can give myself
is permission to simply
be three why socializing feels different
now there was a time in my life when
socializing felt as natural as breathing
I craved Connection thrived in the
company of others and found joy in the
shared laughter and camaraderie of
friends family and even strangers but as
the years have passed
I've noticed a shift not just in how I
approach social interactions but in how
they make me feel it's not that I
dislike people or that I've closed
myself off it's that the act of
socializing feels fundamentally
different now as though the rhythm of
connection has changed with
age in my earlier years socializing was
a constant part of life it was woven
into the fabric of my days from work
obligations to family gatherings from
catching up with friends to being an
active member of my community but back
then I rarely stopped to question
whether these interactions truly
nourished me I simply went along
believing that being busy and surrounded
by people was the Hallmark of a
fulfilling
life now at 71 I see things more clearly
socializing is no longer about filling
my calendar or keeping up appearances
it's about meaningful connections and
those are far more rare than I once
thought time and experience have taught
me that not every conversation is worth
having and not every relationship is
worth keeping there's an emotional toll
that comes with superficial exchanges
and draining Dynamics and I've grown
more protective of my time and
energy as I've aged I've become more
attuned to the nuances of human
interaction I noticed things I once
overlooked the subtle manipulations the
insincerity the unspoken
expectations I've learned to read
between the lines to sense when
someone's interest is genuine or merely
transactional and while this awareness
has made me more Discerning it's also
made socializing more complex it's
harder to approach people with the same
unguarded openness I once had because
I've learned through a experience that
not everyone deserves that level of
trust I've also discovered how much
energy socializing requires energy that
I no longer have in endless supply I
think we underestimate the effort it
takes to be present in a conversation to
truly listen to empathize and to engage
in my younger years I could do this
without thinking bouncing from one
interaction to the next but now I find
myself needing to conserve my energy to
choose carefully where I invest it and
often I choose quiet over company not
because I dislike people but because
Solitude replenishes me in a way that
socializing no longer
does this shift doesn't mean I've
abandoned relationships it means I've
redefined them I no longer feel the need
to maintain every connection or attend
every event I've let go of the notion
that saying know makes me selfish or
unfriendly instead I focus on the
relationships that matter most the ones
built on mutual
respect understanding and love these are
the people who have stood by me through
life's ups and downs who know me as I am
and accept me without judgment they are
my true Circle and they make the rare
moments of socializing feel meaningful
rather than
obligatory I've also learned to find joy
in smaller quieter interactions a brief
chat with a neighbor a kind exchange
with a stranger or a shared laugh with a
family member these moments though
fleeting often feel more genuine than
ours spent in larger more formal
Gatherings they remind me that
connection doesn't have to be grand or
elaborate sometimes the simplest
interactions are the most
profound socializing now is less about
quantity and more about quality I no
longer seek to fill my days with people
instead I look for depth in the
connections I do have it's a quieter
more intentional way of relating to
others and it feels truer to who I am at
this stage of my
life at 71 I've come to terms with the
fact that not everyone will understand
this change some may see it as
withdrawing as becoming less involved or
less available but but I see it as an
evolution a natural part of aging and
growing into
myself socializing may feel different
now but that difference has brought with
it a greater sense of Peace purpose and
authenticity and for that I am deeply
grateful four trust changes over
time trust is one of the most fragile
yet Essential Elements of Life When
We're Young It comes naturally
we extend it freely believing in the
goodness of others assuming that most
people will treat us with the same
kindness and honesty we offer them but
as the years pass life teaches us that
trust is both precious and precarious at
71 I understand this lesson in a way I
never could when I was younger trust
hasn't disappeared from my life but it's
transformed becoming more deliberate
more guarded
and more deeply
valued the journey to this understanding
hasn't been easy I've had my share of
betrayals disappointments and
heartbreaks friends I thought would
Stand By Me faded away when life got
hard promises were broken and people I
trusted revealed sides of themselves I
never expected to see these experiences
weren't unique to me they're part of the
human
condition but each one left a mark
a subtle reminder that trust once lost
is rarely regained in
full over time I began to see patterns
the more I trusted indiscriminately the
more vulnerable I became to those who
didn't have my best interest at heart it
wasn't about malice on their part
necessarily sometimes it was simply
thoughtlessness or
selfishness but regardless of the cause
the result was the same a wound to my
faith in
others these experiences taught me to be
more Discerning I no longer give my
trust freely it has to be earned this
doesn't mean I assume the worst of
people but I've learned to wait and
watch to let their actions reveal their
character before I open my heart fully
it's a slower process but it's also a
safer one and it allows me to build
relationships on a foundation of mutual
respect and authen
authenticity I've also come to
understand that not everyone is capable
of meeting the same standard of
trustworthiness this isn't a judgment
it's an
observation some people for whatever
reason struggle to be consistent
reliable or honest others may have good
intentions but lack the emotional tools
to follow
through recognizing this has helped me
let go of resentment and instead focus
on surrounding ing myself with those who
align with my values and reciprocate my
efforts at this stage in my life I no
longer seek trust from everyone instead
I've cultivated a small circle of people
who have proven themselves over time
these relationships are my Safe Harbor
the places where I can be vulnerable
without fear they remind me that while
trust can be fragile it is also
incredibly resilient when nurtured with
care and
understanding but even within this
circle I've learned to balance trust
with
self-reliance life has shown me that
ultimately the person I can count on
most is
myself this doesn't mean I've closed
myself off from others it means I've
developed an inner strength that allows
me to weather disappointments without
becoming bitter or
broken trusting myself has been one of
the greatest Gifts of age in and it's
something I wish I had embraced
sooner trust also looks different now
because my priorities have shifted I no
longer feel the need to place my faith
in everyone I meet I don't feel
obligated to maintain relationships that
don't serve me or to give second chances
to those who have proven they don't
deserve them this isn't about being
unforgiving it's about protecting my
peace my time is limited and I choose to
spend it with people who enrich my life
not those who drain
it at 71 I've come to see trust as a
delicate but powerful thread that
connects us to others it's not something
to be taken lightly or given without
thought instead it's a gift we offer
carefully knowing its value and
respecting its fragility and while the
journey to this understanding has been
fraught with challenges I wouldn't trade
the wisdom I've gained for
anything in the end trust changes
because we change we grow we learn and
we adapt and as our understanding
deepens so too does our ability to
navigate the complexities of
relationships with Grace and
Clarity trust may be harder to give now
but when it's earned it feels all the
more meaningful a reminder that even in
a world filled with uncertainty there's
still room for connection honesty and
hope five the pandemic's impact
embracing Stillness in a chaotic
world the pandemic was a turning point
for all of us a moment in history that
forced the world to slow down and take
stock of itself for me at 71 it felt
like a paradoxical gift wrapped in
uncertainty and
loss as the world grew quieter I began
to hear my own thoughts more clearly in
the Stillness I found an unexpected kind
of clarity a chance to re-evaluate What
mattered most to me and to reink how I
wanted to spend the rest of my life
before the pandemic life was often a
blur of activity even in retirement
there were routines obligations and the
everpresent hum of busyness that seemed
to Define Modern Life there was always
something to do somewhere to go someone
to see but when the world shut down all
of that came to a halt at first it was
unsettling quiet felt unnal like an
emptiness I didn't know how to fill but
as the day stretched into weeks and
months I began to see the beauty in the
Stillness I started to notice things I
had overlooked for years the way the
sunlight shifted across my living room
floor the rhythm of the bird song
outside my window the sound of my own
breathing as I sat alone with my
thoughts these small simple moments
became a source of comfort a reminder
that life's Beauty often lies in its
quietest Corners the constant noise of
the world its demands its distractions
had been silenced and in that silence I
found a sense of peace I hadn't realized
I was
missing the pandemic also changed the
way I viewed my relationships with
social dist Ing and lockdowns in place I
couldn't rely on the usual forms of
connection family gatherings casual
visits with friends or even a friendly
chat at the grocery store at first this
isolation felt like a loss aoid where
connection used to be but over time I
began to see it differently it wasn't
that I didn't miss people I did but I
also realized that I didn't need
constant interaction to feel connected
instead I learned to Value the deeper
more intentional relationships in my
life a phone call with a dear friend a
letter from a loved one or a quiet
moment of prayer became profound sources
of connection these moments felt more
meaningful than the surface level
interactions I had often relied on
before the pandemic Stripped Away the
noise and left behind what truly
mattered authentic ticity sincerity and
love one of the most surprising lessons
of that time was how much I enjoyed my
own company before the pandemic I might
have avoided Solitude out of habit or
fear of loneliness but being alone
during those long months forced me to
confront myself in ways I hadn't before
I realized that I didn't need to be
surrounded by others to feel whole I
could find joy in my own presence in my
own thoughts and in the Simple Pleasures
of daily life this newfound appreciation
for Solitude also reshaped my
relationship with the outside world I no
longer felt the pressure to say yes to
every invitation or to fill my days with
activity for the sake of staying busy
instead I embraced the freedom to choose
how I spent my time and with whom I
became more selective more intentional
and ultimately more at peace
the pandemic for all its challenges and
heartbreak gave me a gift I never
expected chance to slow down and truly
see my life for what it is it reminded
me that the pace of the world doesn't
have to dictate the pace of my heart I
can choose Stillness I can choose
Simplicity and in doing so I can find a
deeper sense of fulfillment than I ever
thought
possible now as the world world moves
forward I carry those lessons with me
the pandemic may have forced us apart
but it also brought me closer to myself
it taught me to find joy in the quiet to
cherish the relationships that truly
matter and to embrace the Stillness that
so often goes unnoticed in a Busy World
in that way it was not just a time of
loss but a time of profound Discovery a
chance to reimagine what it me means to
live a life of meaning connection and
peace six rediscovering what matters a
journey to Simplicity and
fulfillment as I've grown older I've
come to understand that life is not
about chasing after every fleeting
desire or filling our days with endless
activity instead it's about appreciating
what truly matters and letting go of
everything that doesn't this realization
didn't come all at once it was a gradual
Awakening shaped by years of reflection
mistakes and the quiet wisdom that only
time can
bring in my younger years my world felt
endlessly busy I was caught in the
Whirlwind of obligations raising
children building a career tending to
relationships and trying to meet
expectations that often felt
overwhelming I believe that productivity
equaled purpose and busyness equal
success but as the years passed I began
to see the cracks in that mindset all
too often I sacrificed my own peace and
happiness in the pursuit of things that
in hindsight held little
meaning now at 71 I see life with
clearer eyes the things that matter most
aren't tied to possessions accolades or
pack schedules they're the simple every
day moments that bring joy and
connection it's the warmth of a hug from
a grandchild the way sunlight streams
through a window in the early morning
the taste of a favorite meal cooked with
care these moments though small are
profound they remind me of the beauty
that exists in the present and the
richness of a life lived with
intention part of rediscovering what
matters has been learning to let go of
people expectations and even parts of
myself that no longer align with who
I've become there's a kind of grief in
releasing old versions of yourself but
there's also incredible freedom I no
longer feel the need to prove myself or
to keep up with anyone else's idea of
success my days are no longer defined by
how much I accomplish or how many people
I please but by how present and
fulfilled I
feel this Simplicity has also reshaped
my relationship ship I no longer cling
to connections that feel forced or
one-sided instead I focus on the people
who uh genuinely enrich my life the ones
who understand me accept me and bring
light into my world these relationships
are fewer but deeper and they remind me
that it's the quality of our connections
not the quantity that truly
matters seven is this normal finding
peace in the natural flow of
Aging as I've embraced this quieter
simpler way of living I've often
wondered if others feel the same way is
it normal to Crave Solitude to grow more
selective in relationships to prioritize
peace over productivity the answer I
found is yes aging brings with it a
natural shift in perspective one that
many of us share but rarely speak
about in our younger years
life often feels like a race there's so
much to do so much to achieve so many
people to meet and impress but as we age
the race slows and we begin to realize
that not every Finish Line is worth
Crossing we start to see the value in
pausing in stepping off the track
altogether and in simply
being this shift can feel unsettling at
first the world tells us that we should
stay busy stay social stay involved even
as we grow older but what the world
doesn't often tell us is that it's okay
to change it's okay to let go of the
expectations you once carried and to
create a life that feels truer to who
you are now this isn't giving up it's
growing into
yourself what I've learned is that this
stage of life is an invitation to live
more authentically it's a chance to
strip away the noise and distractions
and to focus on what really matters it's
not about withdrawing from the world but
about engaging with it on your own terms
and while this may look different for
everyone the underlying truth is
universal as we age we become more
attuned to our own needs more accepting
of our own limitations and more aware of
the beauty in the present moment a life
of clarity and
contentment as I sit with the
reflections of a life well- lived I find
myself filled with a sense of Peace not
from having all the answers but from
finally understanding the
questions what truly matters what brings
joy and
fulfillment the answers are not in the
noise of busyness or the endless pursuit
of more but in the quiet Simplicity of
being present with what
is aging has a way of stripping away the
unnecessary leaving only what is
essential it teaches us to appreciate
the moments we once took for granted the
warmth of the morning sun the comfort of
a familiar routine the gentle presence
of those who truly care these small but
profound gifts are what make life rich
not the distractions we once thought
were so
important at this stage I've let go of
the need to prove myself to meet
expectations that no longer serve me
I've stopped chasing things that never
truly mattered and instead embraced
what's already here this Clarity has
brought a contentment that feels deeply
grounding life in its imperfect beauty
is
enough for those walking this path with
me I encourage you to lean into this
season of Life embrace the lessons it
offers the peace it can bring and the
love that still surrounds you there is
no right or wrong way to live of this
chapter only your way shaped by the
wisdom you've earned and the truths you
hold
dear as I look ahead I don't worry about
what's to come instead I trust that the
same Clarity and Grace that have guided
me this far will continue to lead the
way life may slow down but its richness
deepens and in that I find more than
enough these lessons are meant to
inspire you to live full fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with
one if not feel free to comment with
zero your feedback means a lot to us
don't forget to like share and subscribe
to our YouTube channel for more content
like this thank you for watching and
here's to living life on your own terms