old age remembers two things not to
laugh at three things not to complain
about two things not to argue
over as we age life offers us profound
lessons shaping who we are and teaching
us what matters most for those entering
or already enjoying the golden years it
becomes increasingly important to focus
on inner peace meaningful connections
and letting go of unnecessary burdens
here I sh share heartfelt advice about
seven guiding principles two things not
to laugh at three things not to complain
about and two things not to argue
over these simple yet profound lessons
aim to inspire wisdom and serenity for
senior citizens navigating life's later
stages let us explore each in depth if
you enjoyed this video give it a thumbs
up don't forget to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you never miss an
update one two things not to laugh
at laughter is indeed the best medicine
but not all types of laughter are
created equal some can hurt others and
diminish our own compassion here are two
things we should never laugh
at one don't laugh at romantic
relationships romantic love is a gift
one that doesn't diminish with age but
instead transforms forms into something
deeper and more enduring for many in
their later Years love is not just a
fleeting feeling it's a profound need
for connection companionship and
understanding yet Society often
marginalizes or trivializes the Romantic
lives of older adults turning them into
the butt of jokes or dismissing their
emotions as misplaced Nostalgia this is
both unfair and
unkind imagine a widow in her 70s
finding joy in the company of someone
new after Decades of marriage to her
late spouse
for her this companionship might be a
Lifeline a reason to smile to dress up
to look forward to
tomorrow or consider an elderly man who
after Years of Solitude gathers the
courage to express his affection for a
fellow resident in his retirement
community these stories are not
laughable they are deeply human and
profoundly
courageous when we laugh at someone
else's romantic relation ships
especially in their later years we
forget one fundamental truth love is
Ageless the need to love and be loved is
not something we outgrow no matter how
many birthdays we've celebrated instead
of dismissing or mocking these
relationships we should honor them as a
testament to the resilience of the human
heart romance in old age often carries a
wisdom and sincerity that younger love
lacks it's a choice made not out of
necessity or societal expectation but
from a genuine desire to connect
laughing at such relationships
diminishes the vulnerability and bravery
it takes to open one's heart
particularly after a lifetime of
experiences both joyous and
painful so what should you do when you
see an older friend or family member
Finding Love Again celebrate it
encourage it ask about their happiness
not with a smirk but with genuine
curiosity their story might inspire you
remind you of your own capacity for
connection and reinforce the beauty of
Love at any stage of Life two don't
laugh at physical
imperfections aging is a natural process
one that leaves visible traces on our
bodies wrinkles appear where Smiles once
lived scars Mark battles fought and
sometimes won hair thins posture bends
and movement slow these changes are not
flaws they are reflections of a life
well lived yet in a culture that often
worships Youth and physical Perfection
it's all too easy to reduce these signs
of aging to a
punchline think about the impact this
has on those who are laughed at a
seemingly innocent joke about someone's
weight gate or wrinkles can reinforce
insecurities they've worked years to
overcome for many older adults these
physical changes are tied to significant
emotional Milestones a scar that recalls
a life-saving surgery hands weathered by
Decades of work or a slower step that
reflects the sacrifices of caregiving to
mock these changes is to mock the life
behind
them consider your own Journey if you've
lived long enough to have gray hair
scars or stiff joints you've lived long
enough to gather memories lessons and
love isn't that something to celebrate
rather than
ridicule by laughing at someone else's
physical imperfections we diminish not
only their worth but also our own
capacity for
empathy physical changes also serve as
reminders of the strength and
adaptability of the human body that body
no matter how it looks today has carried
you through Decades of challenges and
triumphs it has healed wounds hugged
loved ones and traveled countless Minds
every wrinkle every scar every gray hair
is a badge of
honor when you catch yourself tempted to
comment on someone's physical appearance
pause replace judgment with
curiosity what stories do those wrinkles
hold what sacrifices does that slower
step
reveal and what lessons can you learn
from the way they carry themselves with
dignity and
Grace instead of laughing offer
encouragement complement their
resilience their Poise or their style
simple acts of kindness can transform
someone's day and remind them and
yourself that aging is not a loss but a
celebration of life's
fullness as we grow older laughter
remains one of life's greatest Joys but
it must be wielded wisely laugh with
people not at them let your humor heal
rather than harm by refusing to laugh at
someone's romantic choices or physical
changes you Embrace a richer more
compassionate view of life one that
honors the journeys we've all taken and
the humanity we all
share in the golden years our Legacy
lies not in how young we look or how
conventional our choices seem but in the
kindness and understanding we extend to
others choose to be a source of light
not laughter when other need your
respect most that choice is a reflection
of your wisdom and your heart two three
things not to complain
about as the years go by it's natural to
reflect on life's twists and turns the
places we've lived the family we come
from and the relationships we've built
but as we reflect it's important to
resist the pull of negativity
complaining about these parts of our
Lives often blinds us to the blessings
we've gained and distances us from those
who cherish us let's explore with depth
and empathy Why We should strive not to
complain about our hometown our family
background and our
marriages one don't complain about your
hometown your hometown is not just a
physical place it's a Wellspring of
identity whether it was a bustling city
or a quiet rural Town it shaped the
person you've become it cradled your
earliest memories running Barefoot in
the summer heat climbing trees in the
backyard yard or sharing secrets with
childhood
friends yet it's easy to grow
disillusioned with it over time perhaps
it has changed becoming unrecognizable
from the vibrant place you remember
perhaps it never quite lived up to your
dreams complaining about it now however
diminishes the profound impact it had on
your
life to lament your hometown is to
overlook the good it gave you it's where
you learned your first lessons about
love loss and Community it's where you
discovered your favorite flavors
celebrated your first triumphs and
recovered from your earliest
failures even if it wasn't perfect and
no place ever is it offered you a
foundation on which you've built your
life consider this every place has its
flaws complaining about your hometown
often says more about how we compare our
lives to others than it does about the
place itself maybe your neighbor's
Hometown seems grander more cultured or
more prosperous but at the heart of it
hometowns are like family we didn't
choose them but they're an Inseparable
part of who we
are instead of complaining tell the
stories that make your hometown unique
share with your grandchildren the way
the autum leaves used to Crunch
underfoot on your walk to school or the
smell of Pies baking at the local Diner
let these memories live on in the hearts
of your family honor your roots not by
idealizing them but by celebrating their
role in your
journey two don't complain about your
family
background our families are the first
mirrors we encounter in life reflecting
back to us both love and imperfection
not everyone comes from a family that's
Picture Perfect some of us grew up in
poverty others may have faced a
arangement dysfunction or emotional
distance these hardships might tempt us
to dwell in what we lacked but spending
our later years in bitterness about our
Origins only robs us of the peace and
gratitude we
deserve complaining about your family
background often perpetuates pain
instead of healing it while it's
important to acknowledge any harm or
challenges you faced it's equally
important to recognize the strength
you've gained perhaps growing up with
little money taught you resil ience and
resourcefulness perhaps having a strict
parent gave you the discipline that led
to your
successes even in the most difficult
circumstances there are lessons to
uncover and gratitude to
cultivate it's also vital to think about
how your words affect others especially
your children and grandchildren when you
speak negatively about your family
background you inadvertently send a
message about their lineage you risk
planting seeds of in security making
them question their own identity by
reframing The Narrative you offer them a
sense of pride in their Heritage instead
of saying my parents were cold and
distant you might say my parents had
their struggles but they worked hard to
give us a
chance forgiveness too plays a role here
forgiving those in your family who may
have hurt or disappointed you is not
about excusing their actions but about
freeing yourself from the weight of
anger and regret letting go of
complaints about your family background
allows you to find joy in the
relationships you have now and create a
legacy of love and understanding for
future
Generations three don't complain about
your
marriage a long marriage is like a great
novel filled with twists turns Joy
sorrow and everything in between by the
time we reach our golden years we've
likely weathered storms with our
partners that only time can bring
raising children navigating careers
managing finances and facing
loss it's easy to look back and focus on
the disappointments the arguments or the
ways your partner didn't meet your
expectations but complaining about your
marriage overshadows the remarkable
Journey you've
shared marriage in old age is not about
perfection it's about persistence the
person sitting beside you on the couch
even after all these years has chosen to
walk life's path with you day after day
that commitment deserves recognition
when we complain about our marriages we
often fail to see the quiet acts of Love
That sustain them maybe your spouse
isn't as romantic as they used to be but
they still make sure the lights are off
before bed maybe they forget
anniversaries but they always remember
to warm your coffee in the
morning moreover public complaints about
your spouse can cause harm not just to
your partner but also to your
relationship words have power and
voicing dissatisfaction repeatedly can
create wounds that are difficult to heal
instead nurture gratitude reflect on the
laughter the shared meals the comfort of
knowing someone is always in your
corner even if your marriage has had
significant challenges perhaps
infidelity illness or financial
struggles it's important to recognize
the resilience that brought you both to
this point the fact that you're still
together choosing each other every day
is a testament to your shared
strength finally remember that marriage
in later life is an opportunity for
rediscovery as you and your spouse
transition from raising children to
enjoying retirement you have the chance
to reconnect in new ways take up a hobby
together reminisce about your younger
days or simply spend time appreciating
the quiet companionship that only comes
from Decades of
partnership why letting go of complaints
matters letting go of complaints about
your hometown family background and
marriage is not about denying life's
difficulties it's about choosing to see
the beauty amid the imperfections when
we stop complaining we create space for
gratitude connection and peace we model
resilience for younger Generations and
remind ourselves of what truly
matters life at 65 and Beyond is not a
time for lamenting What Might Have Been
it's a time for cherishing what is by
focusing on the blessings hidden in your
hometown your family background and your
marriage you cultivate a legacy of Hope
wisdom and love and that Legacy more
than anything else is what
endures three three things not to argue
about as we grow older we come to
understand that not every conflict is
worth the energy at demands our golden
years are precious offering us the
opportunity to focus on what truly
matters Health relationships in inner
peace arguments especially those that
yield no resolution can steal that peace
and burden us
unnecessarily by learning to discern
which conflicts to avoid we preserve not
only our energy but also our dignity
let's delve into three specific types of
arguments that we should leave behind
for a more fulfilling life one don't
argue with someone who's
drunk alcohol has a unique ability to
strip people of their inhibitions
Clarity and self-control when someone is
under its influence their words often
become sharp exaggerated or nonsensical
while it may feel instinctive to defend
yourself or correct their misconceptions
arguing with a drunk person is like
trying to reason with the wind it
accomplishes nothing and often leaves
you feeling
drained imagine a family gathering where
an intoxicated relative begins
recounting a distorted version of an old
family disagreement their voice grows
louder their words more pointed in that
moment you might feel compelled to
defend your side of the
story but pause and ask yourself will
they even remember this tomorrow is this
really the time to address these
issues the answer is likely
no choosing to walk away doesn't mean
surrendering your values or letting them
win it's about recognizing that their
current state prevents meaningful
conversation instead respond with calm
neutrality let's talk about this another
time this approach not only preserves
your peace but also prevents the
situation from
escalating for loved on who frequently
drink to excess consider addressing the
broader issue of their behavior when
they're sober compassionate
non-judgmental conversations can lead to
better understanding and potentially
meaning on meaningful change save your
energy for moments when your words can
truly make a difference two don't argue
with someone who has nothing to
lose there's a quiet danger in engaging
with someone who feels they have nothing
left to lose these individuals may be in
the grip of desperation frustration or
anger and their actions often defy
reason they argue not to find resolution
but to exert control or vent their
emotions engaging with them rarely leads
to anything positive and can put You In
Harm's Way emotionally or even
physically consider this
scenario at a local community meeting an
individual begins loudly criticizing the
decisions of others venting their
personal grievances with no regard for
the topic at hand they seem ready to
escalate at the slightest provocation
engaging with them might feel like
defending what's right but it often ends
up adding fuel to their fire worse it
can draw you into a downward spiral of
negativity the wiser choice is to
disengage a simple I hear you or even a
nod can diffuse tension without inviting
further conflict if the situation allows
remove yourself
entirely this isn't about avoiding tough
conversations it's about recognizing
when someone is unwilling or unable to
engage
constructively if you must address an
issue with someone in this state do so
strategically choose a calm moment and
approach with empathy I know you've been
through a lot let's find a way to work
through this together while not every
conflict can be resolved responding with
kindness and caution protects your peace
and sets an example for others three
don't argue with someone you'll never
see
again in our daily lives we often
encounter strangers at the grocery store
in traffic or waiting in line whose
actions May irritate or even offend us
it's tempting to respond when someone
cuts you off speaks rudely or acts
disrespectfully but in the grand scheme
of things does does engaging with them
add value to your life imagine you're
waiting in line at a coffee shop and
someone loudly criticizes a staff for
being too slow you feel a surge of
frustration after all their impatience
is disrupting everyone's morning the
temptation to chime in is strong but
before you say anything ask yourself
what will this achieve will this person
ever change because of what I
say in most cases the answer is no
strangers don't hold a permanent place
in your life and their behavior often
has little to do with you engaging in
conflict with them risks leaving you
upset long after the moment has
passed instead practice Letting Go offer
a kind smile or if necessary create
distance this doesn't mean ignoring bad
behavior it means prioritizing your own
well-being by choosing not to engage you
can serve your energy for the people and
situation that truly
matter why avoiding these arguments is
vital as we age our priority
shift we begin to Value peace over
Victory understanding over confrontation
and relationships over Pride avoiding
unnecessary arguments is not a sign of
weakness it's a demonstration of wisdom
learned through Decades of
experience here's why walking away from
these conflicts is so so
powerful you preserve your
energy arguments especially fruitless
ones are emotionally and mentally
exhausting by avoiding them you redirect
your energy toward meaningful Pursuits
and joyful
moments you protect your
relationships even the closest bonds can
be strained by unnecessary conflicts by
choosing your battles wisely you nurture
Harmony in your family and
Community you
model Grace and
restraint younger Generations look to
seniors for guidance by responding to
conflict with dignity you teach them the
value of self-control and
respect embracing peace in the golden
years at this stage of Life you've
earned the right to prioritize your
happiness and well-being walking away
from unnecessary arguments isn't about
giving up
it's about choosing a life filled with
joy connection and serenity whether it's
with a drunk individual someone consumed
by despair or a passing stranger you
have the power to decide which battles
are worth your
time remember every moment spent in
conflict is a moment stolen from the
things that bring you peace choose to
let go to forgive and to focus on what
truly Matters by doing so you enrich not
only your own life but also the lives of
those who look up to you peace after all
is the greatest victory of all
conclusion choosing wisdom embracing
peace as we journey through the later
stages of life we begin to understand
that peace is not merely the absence of
turmoil but the deliberate choice to
live with wisdom Grace and purpose the
lessons of knowing what not to laugh at
what not to complain about and what not
to argue over are about much more than
avoiding conflict they are guiding
principles for a life rich in meaning
and
fulfillment the legacy of
kindness when we choose not to laugh at
someone's vulnerabilities we do more
than spare them hurt we actively build a
world rooted in kindness a warm smile or
a compassionate word can uplift someone
struggling with their own insecurities
by honoring the relationships and
experiences that make us human we extend
Grace not only to others but also to
ourselves this kindness becomes a legacy
a ripple effect that touches children
grandchildren and even
strangers as Elders we carry the
responsibility of modeling this kindness
for the Next Generation every
interaction is an opportunity to teach
by example showing that dignity lies in
how we treat those around us especially
in their moments of vulnerability by
choosing Ching kindness over mockery we
offer a profound gift to the world the
power of
gratitude letting go of complaints about
our hometown our family or our marriage
requires a shift in perspective instead
of focusing on what could have been
better we focus on what has been
beautiful gratitude transforms how we
see the world allowing us to find joy in
even the smallest moments the laughter
of a grandchild the warm sunlight on
your face the steady presence of a
lifelong partner these are Treasures
that no amount of complaining can
improve but plenty of gratitude can
magnify gratitude is also a form of
healing it allows us to forgive the
imperfections of the past whether they
belong to places people or
circumstances by choosing gratitude we
set ourselves free from the weight of
regret
creating room for serenity and
contentment this isn't just a gift to
ourselves it's a gift to those who walk
alongside us when we radiate gratitude
we Inspire others to do the
same the wisdom of walking
away arguments have a way of pulling us
into their gravity draining our energy
and leaving us
unsettled yet with age comes the wisdom
to know which B battles are worth
fighting and which are best Left Behind
walking away from an argument whether
with a drunk person someone desperate or
a passing stranger is not a concession
of defeat but a declaration of
self-respect it says I value my peace
more than I value being
right this wisdom doesn't just protect
us it enriches our Relationships by
refusing to engage in fruitless disputes
we preserve harmony with the loved ones
and ensure that our time together is
spent on connection not conflict imagine
the gift this gives to those who share
your life moments of laughter shared
memories and a calm presence that
reassures and Comforts living with
purpose in the golden
years the choices we make in our later
years carry tremendous weight not
because they change the world overnight
but because they shape how we experience
the world and how others experience us
these choices Define our
Legacy will we be remembered as someone
who found beauty in the everyday who
responded to challenges with Grace and
who embraced others with understanding
or will we leave behind memories of
bitterness regret and unresolved
conflict choosing peace gratitude and
kindness doesn't mean ignoring life's
challenges it means facing them with the
calm confidence that comes from knowing
what truly matters it means prioritizing
the people experiences and values that
bring joy and meaning to our
days it means becoming a beacon of
wisdom in a world often clouded by
chaos a life well-
lived as you reflect on your own Journey
take a moment to consider the immense
gift of time every wrinkle uh every gray
hair every memory is a testament to the
life you've lived and the lessons you've
learned you've seen Joys and Sorrows
triumphs and setback
and through it all you've endured that
endurance is worth
celebrating your Legacy isn't measured
by wealth accolades or accomplishments
it's measured by the love you've shared
the peace you've cultivated and the
wisdom you've imparted it's in the way
your grandchildren remember your stories
in The Quiet Moments you spend with a
lifelong friend and in the laughter that
Echoes through your home during family
gatherings
parting
thoughts as the sun sets on one day and
Rises on another let us remember that
each moment is an opportunity to live
with
intention choose to laugh with not at
choose to celebrate rather than complain
choose to walk away from arguments that
steal your joy these small decisions May
daily create a life of Harmony
fulfillment and deep
satisfaction the poet Mar Oliver asked
what is it you plan to do with your one
wild and precious
life even in our later years this
question resonates the answer lies not
in grand gestures or Monumental
achievements but in the quiet deliberate
choices that shape our character and our
Legacy may your choices lead you to
peace and may your dayses be filled with
the love and wisdom that only a life
well-lived can bring
these lessons are meant to inspire you
to live fully and
authentically now I'd love to hear from
you take a moment to reflect and share
one thing you've learned and plan to
apply in your own life let's support
each other on this journey toward
embracing these
truths if you enjoyed this video please
leave a comment with one if not feel
free to comment with zero your feedback
means a lot to us don't forget to like
share and subscribe to our YouTube
channel for more content like this thank
you for watching and here's to living
life on your own terms